---
layout: page
title: Stanford AA241X (2006)
image: /assets/frankenplane.jpg
summary: In this Aero/Astro course our team designed, built, and flew small electric airplanes.
---

In the 2006 edition of [AA241X](http://adg.stanford.edu/~aa241/) (or maybe the
current version is [here](http://adl.stanford.edu/groups/aa241x/)), teams were
tasked with designing and building a small electric airplane that could gain
as much altitude as possible before landing at a prescribed point.  The
challenges were many, including:

  * The propulsion system (battery, motors, and propellers) was given and (purposely) poorly matched to limit performance to something reasonable.
  * The avionics were also given and included only one sensor - GPS position and velocity updated at 1 Hz.
  * The course took place during a standard 10-week quarter.

Within these constraints, our team managed to excel and win the competition by
building, testing, and crashing early and often.  Our winning design (final
report [here](http://adg.stanford.edu/~aa241/handouts/reports
/AA241XFinalReport-TeamMetric.pdf)) was lightweight and used a simple, robust
control algorithm.  During our best flight attempt, we climbed to nearly 250
meters and landed within the landing zone.

During the quarter, we built three airplanes, shown below.  The first, dubbed
"FrankenPlane", was built as a test bed to verify control characteristics and
try our algorithms.  Based on its performance, we adjusted the wing
polyhedral, tail sizing, and control surface sizing for best performance.  The
simple construction (foam wing, balsa fuselage) allowed us to build it quickly
for lots of early testing and also allowed for easy repairs.

![FrankenPlane]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/frankenplane.jpg)

The second model, "GoBigOrGoHome", turned out to live up to its name.  We
attempted to build a carbon D-tube leading edge, but the design was overkill
and the end product was much too heavy to climb well.

![GoBigOrGoHome]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/gbogh.jpg)

Our competition plane, "KateMoss", took lessons learned from the first two
versions and represented an all-out effort to reduce the airframe weight.

![KateMoss]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/katemoss.jpg)

Several aspects of our final design were used in later iterations of the
class.  We built a radio-control/auto-pilot switch to facilitate testing that
was incorporated into all new versions of the avionics board used for the
class.  Our control algorithm, which used bang-bang control to try to fly a
racetrack pattern over the landing point at all times, worked quite well
despite the slow update rate of the GPS sensor, and following students
borrowed ideas from the design in their implementations.