---
categories:
- Living
- R&amp;R
- Working
date: 2012-07-27 20:10:08
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Eight weeks down
type: post
---

Tomorrow I’m heading off for my R&R, a two week vacation in the middle of my
deployment out here.  I’ve been living and working in Afghanistan for eight
weeks and away from home for nine.  I was thinking a little bit today about
how I feel about this whole experience.  On the one hand, it’s been pretty
tough being away from home, friends, my bikes, and of course Lena for over two
months.  Life here is not like home – there’s a lack of plumbing, the weather
is monotonously hot, the air quality is terrible, we have rocket attacks, the
food is middling to bad, and my roommate is not my wife.

On the other hand, though, the work out here is probably more fulfilling than
anything I’ve ever done before.  The main other offer I had before I took this
job was for a postdoc, doing research on atmospheric turbulence and wind
turbines at Lawrence Livermore National Lab.  While that would undoubtedly
have been interesting in many ways, it would have been very academic,
research-type work.  Any real world implications would have been years down
the road, if anything useful came of it.  What I’m doing out here . . . even
the small projects are improving soldiers’ lives on a daily basis.  These guys
literally risk their lives outside the fences of KAF and other FOBs every
single day.  We can make their vehicles more comfortable (designing better
air-conditioning vents), make their equipment run longer (battery adapters for
all kinds of devices), and keep them safer (cameras for surveillance and
vehicle blind spots) by working on projects out here in the war zone.  By
being out here, we get to understand the problems they’re facing in a way we
never would be able to from home and turn around solutions in what is, to the
military, record-breaking time.  It really is just an incredible opportunity
to make a difference.

So in the balance, so far, I’m happy I decided to do this.  I’m having fun
doing hands-on engineering work, bringing in new and exciting project ideas,
and learning a lot as I go.  The work is super fulfilling.  And the
inconveniences and discomforts of life here are survivable – it could be a lot
worse.  The second part of my deployment might be a little tougher because
it’s going to be about 12 weeks long.  Hopefully it will be broken up a bit by
travel around Afghanistan, which should make it more exciting – I’m still
waiting for my first helicopter flight.  So stay tuned . . . there’s much more
of this blog to come.

Just a little bit about my R&R plans.  Lena and I are meeting up in Iceland on
Sunday (if all goes according to plan) where we’ll spend 12ish days touring
around a very interesting little country.  Here’s where we’re going:

![image]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/image1.png)

Ok, sorry for the static map, but Google sucks out here for no apparent
reason, and the embedded version of the Bing map doesn’t show directions (go
[here](http://binged.it/N8uOox) for the map shown above).  Sometimes the
internet is fun.

Anyway.  We’re covering a good bit of the country, but hopefully not too much.
We’re planning on visiting national parks, glaciers, volcanoes, mountains,
puffins, and maybe whales.  We’ll probably also stop by hot springs and
waterfalls.  Expect lots of photos and a decent trip report the next time I
post.

So tomorrow, my itinerary takes me from here direct to Dubai, then on to Doha
and Frankfurt, arriving in Iceland Sunday afternoon.  It’s a bit of a long
trip this way (long layovers in Dubai and Frankfurt), but that’s ok – even
airports have bathrooms with real running water.  And restaurants that take
credit cards.  And no dust.  And when I get to Reykjavik, I get to see Lena.
In case you couldn’t tell, I can’t wait to leave KAF for two weeks!