---
categories:
- Weird
date: 2012-06-19 19:36:17
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Just another day on the farm
type: post
---

For some reason, which I can’t quite fathom, the locals from around KAF like
to bring their animals over to graze right outside of the fence line.  Now, it
may be that these guys are gathering some sort of intel for the bad guys, but
I kind of doubt it – you can’t actually see anything on base because
everything is surrounded by 12-15 foot high concrete barriers.  So maybe
they’re just stupid.  Why stupid?

![DSCN0125]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0125.jpg)

In this photo, you can see the goat herder and some of his goats.  They’re
probably 10-50 meters outside the fenceline.  If you look closely, you can see
little white dome things out to 100 meters or so.  Those are mine markers.
Yes, this guy is walking around with his goats in a minefield.  Now, most of
the mines have apparently been out there for 30 years.  A fun little fact that
I heard here is that in that amount of time, mines have a slight tendency to
migrate around, and therefore are likely to not be under the markers.  Even if
they’re vehicle mines (as in, you must be heavier than a person to set them
off) would you really walk around out there with your goats?  I sure wouldn’t.

![IMG_2799]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_2799.jpg)

On this day out at the fenceline, the goats got a little more brazen.  I’d
like to think that shortly after this photo was taken, Force Protection showed
up and made the goats leave.  Not sure how you do that, exactly, but I bet
they get a lot of practice.

![IMG_2833]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_2833.jpg)

If you want to see camels out by the fence, you have to get there by 10 AM –
after that, the camels go home.  I assume.  Or maybe by 10 all of them have
stepped on land mines.

Edit: I’ve been informed that mine markers painted white actually indicate
cleared or deactivated mines.  Still, I’m not sure I would trust that they got
them all . . . that, to me, is still a mine field, and I would not graze my
goats there.