---
categories:
- Living
date: 2012-09-10 02:35:29
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: A change in the weather
type: post
---

Ever since I got back from R&R, the weather has been a little bit less extreme
than it was in July.  Highs were still reaching 104-108 every day, but it
cooled down a lot faster at night and was almost comfortable in the morning
for most of August.  I even got up early enough one morning to see the
thermometer below 80.

![DSCN0755]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0755.jpg)

It was still dry and dusty, though.  Then, yesterday morning, it was cloudy.
This is easily the most clouds I have ever seen in Afghanistan.

![DSCN0863]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0863.jpg)

![DSCN0864]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0864.jpg)

You probably don’t think clouds are exciting, but you haven’t been living in a
country with no clouds for 3 months.  The midday heat was moderated by the
clouds, but the air seemed different.  Heavier.  Almost like there was
something else in the air . . . wait, I know what it was . . . humidity!  And
then last night this happened:

![DSCN0867]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0867.jpg)

That there is the first rain in Kandahar since April.  It wasn’t quite what I
expected – there’s so much dust in the air that I thought the first rain would
be more like a mud storm, with the raindrops pulling dust with them and
falling as mud.  That didn’t really seem to happen.  But the rain did clear
the air (of dust at least) and there was amazing visibility today.  It was
also hot and kind of humid.  I used to think people who said dry heat was
better than humid heat were crazy, but now I sort of understand.  I think 105
and really dry might be better than 95 and 80% humidity.

I’m curious how much the weather patterns are going to change now.  Tonight,
it looked like a big thunderstorm was rolling in as the sun went down, but it
hasn’t hit yet.  Maybe this will be an every afternoon/evening thing for the
fall?  I’m also worried that I might have to start checking the weather and
figure out where my rain jacket is.  With the amount of dust on the ground
here, rain is definitely going to mean lots of mud everywhere.  I might find
myself almost missing the dry summer heat.  We’ll see.  For now, a change in
the weather is kind of nice.