---
categories:
- Living
- Travel
- Working
date: 2012-08-29 02:13:51
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: A very different FOB
type: post
---

I’ve been out here on FOB Masum Ghar for a little over a week, so it’s about
time to write about it.

<div class="googlemaps"><iframe width="640" height="480" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" src="https://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msa=0&amp;msid=200784304288028589064.0004bb0d741a347e8a96f&amp;hl=en&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;t=m&amp;ll=31.557474,65.650177&amp;spn=0.561696,0.878906&amp;z=10&amp;output=embed"></iframe></div>

The marker on the right is KAF, the marker on the left is Masum Ghar (or close
to where the FOB is, at least – it isn’t exactly clear on the Google satellite
map, perhaps for obvious reasons).  As you can see, we’re actually pretty
close to KAF, maybe 25 miles by air.  It’s pretty different from the giant FOB
where I’ve spent most of my deployment so far in many ways, though.

First, it’s a lot closer to the fight.  We’re in the Panjwai district here,
the birthplace of the Taliban, and the units based and commanded from here are
the ones seeing a lot of action these days.  The FOB itself is pretty quiet
(except when EOD is doing controlled detonations, AKA blowing up suspicious
items) – we haven’t had any incoming fire at all while I’ve been here.  But
we’re here because it does put us in contact with soldiers who are really
fighting and taking casualties.  There aren’t a lot of Americans dying out
here, but guys are losing limbs to IEDs on an almost daily basis and we hear
about it when we’re talking to units about how we can help them.  It’s a very
different and sobering view of the war than I got at KAF, where we weren’t
talking to combat units very often.

That aside, the FOB itself is very different from KAF.  It’s a lot smaller –
maybe a tenth of the size in terms of area and number of people.  That means
my lab, showers (with sinks!), bed, DFAC, and gym are all within a 1-5 minute
walk instead of 20-30 minutes on KAF.  There’s only one DFAC, and its run by
American soldiers instead of TCNs (I’ll be posting more about the food later).
There’s also only one gym, which is decently equipped.  There’s no airstrip,
only a HLZ which sees a flight or two per day depending on weather.  And the
scenery is much nicer than KAF.

![DSCN0761]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0761.jpg)

That’s my barracks building in the foreground (it’s not especially fancy – the
walls are plywood or concrete T-walls and the roof is corrugated metal, but
the air-conditioning works well and I have a bed to sleep on).  The small
building on top of the near hill is one of the OPs (observation posts),
otherwise known as a guard tower, which cover our perimeter.  That hill is
actually one of the small hills on the FOB – I hiked up the big one yesterday
and took some photos for your viewing pleasure.  It was a decent hike.

[![DSCN0806_cropped]({{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/dscn0806_cropped_thumb.jpg)](http://engineeringftw.files.wordpress.com/2012/08/dscn0806_cropped.jpg)

The view South/East from OP-6 at the top of our big hill (click for higher
resolution).

[![DSCN0810_cropped]({{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/dscn0810_cropped_thumb.jpg)](http://engineeringftw.files.wordpress.com/2012/08/dscn0810_cropped.jpg)

Looking North/West from OP-6 back over the FOB (click for higher resolution).

Last but not least, my working environment is a bit different.  Instead of a
(sort of) spacious lab like we have at KAF, Scott and I sit in the two-thirds
of a 20-foot shipping container that isn’t taken up by our generator.  We also
have two workbench/tool carts and another storage unit that sit outside, which
is where all our power tools get used, but it gets pretty warm out there in
the middle of the day.  So we spend most of our time inside the lab.

![DSCN0756]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0756.jpg)

You really can cram a lot of stuff in a 20-foot shipping container.  On this
end, you can see all our computers, cabinets holding lots of electronics and
tools, and our communications equipment.  Also the very important coffee
maker.

![DSCN0757]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0757.jpg)

On this end you can see my chair and laptop, the 3D printer and CNC machine,
mini-fridge, and fly swatter.

AOTD: CNC – Computer Numerical Control.  The acronym doesn’t make it very
clear, but in this context, a CNC machine is basically a milling machine
controlled by a computer program.  The CNC machine allows us to make a
computer model of a solid object and actually machine it out of metal or
plastic.  You start by fixing a chunk of your material to a table inside the
CNC machine.  The table can translate back and forth in two directions based
on commands from a computer.  The mill head (sort of like a drill, but with
different types of bits for different cuts) can move up and down, also based
on computer commands.  You translate the computer model of your part into
“toolpaths” (trajectories for the table and mill head to take), hit start, and
hope you did it right.  CNC machines are awesome – you can make very complex,
very precise parts.  On the downside, they’re also machines that can totally
destroy themselves if you make a mistake.  We’re still learning how to use
this one a little bit, but we haven’t broken it yet (we are down one edge
finder, one very tiny end mill, and several chunks out of the vise, but that
seems to be expected . . .).