---
categories:
- Living
- Weird
date: 2012-10-03 03:27:21
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: "Food, Part 3: It\u2019s all the same . . . sort of"
type: post
---

I think the amazing thing about the food out here is that all of the places we
eat get basically the same ingredients to start with, but the end results can
vary vastly.  When I was out at Masum Ghar last week (I’m back at KAF, by the
way), I had hands down the best meal I’ve eaten out here.  It was so good that
I stopped to take a photo after a few bites:

![DSCN0938]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0938.jpg)

Not much to look at, but that’s an EXCELLENT lamb curry over rice with a
decent garden salad and a tiny slice of chocolate cheesecake (and a plum) for
dessert.  The lamb curry was seriously good.  So was the cheesecake.  They
serve lamb curry on KAF, too, but since the meat-cooking method of choice here
is “boil until gray”, it is never delicious.

Here’s what prompted me to realize that the same ingredients can get better,
though: this week, Luxembourg, the DFAC closest to us and therefore most often
frequented, suddenly changed its cuisine.  The company running it is the same,
the workers are the same, but suddenly, the food is a clone of the Niagara
food.  That doesn’t necessarily mean it’s way better – if it was, we’d have
been eating at Niagara more, it’s not that far away.  But it is a lot more
recognizable as things you’d normally find in a buffet-style dining hall.
Last night, instead of “chili con corne” (pretty sure it was meat, not corn,
but who knows, I never try the chili), they served tacos, with hard shells,
cheese, salsa, and normal toppings like onions, jalapenos, and carrots (yes, I
think carrots are normal on tacos even though Lena informs me they’re not,
thanks Mom).  At breakfast, they’re serving American bacon and normal-looking
sausages now instead of weird, supposedly European things.  And best of all,
they now have soymilk in the refrigerators which means I can have cereal once
in a while for breakfast.  Although the cereal options are still not up to
Masum Ghar standards:

![DSCN0946]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0946.jpg)

Midnight (actually, 0600) snack after the VTC on Friday, not breakfast.
Depending on how you look at it.

So, I was going to write about how all the DFACs are slightly different.  But
as of this week, they’re slightly less different, so I don’t know where to go
with this.  Here’s the list of how they’ve been differentiated for the past
four months, though:

Luxembourg: The closest DFAC to our lab, with a “European” cuisine.  This used
to mean they had odd sausages, weird salads, and really sad attempts and good
desserts (crème caramel and pate a choux that would probably make French chefs
cry).  Now they seem to be switching over to American food, which brings me to
. . .

Niagara: The largest DFAC, on the other side of the Boardwalk from us.
Niagara serves “American” food, which means they usually have a short order
bar where you can get staples like hamburgers, hot dogs, fries, onion rings,
fried chicken, grilled cheese, and other waistline expanding delicacies.
Niagara is also the only DFAC on KAF where I’ve seen them serving hard ice
cream.

Cambridge: The British DFAC.  I’ve seen them serve roast beef and Yorkshire
pudding on Sundays and stewed tomatoes and beans for breakfast, but I’m not
sure what else makes them British.  Except for the posters of telephone booths
lining the walls.

Independence: Another big, American DFAC which is run by a different company
so it has slightly different food.  I kind of like Independence the best of
all the DFACs because it has a nice open layout and a wide variety of food
options.  Unfortunately, it’s far away from the lab, so a vehicle is
definitely required to go there and we don’t go often.

Far East: The “Asian” themed DFAC.  This one is right next to our barracks
area where we go to shower, so I do eat there once in a while.  Far East is
apparently Asian because they usually have something they’re calling “curry”
or “biryani” (not usually very good) and they make fried rice or stir fried
noodles in big woks at the short order station.  The best part of Far East is
that they always have sweet chili sauce (a bright red, sweet and spicy sauce)
around – it’s good on everything.

North Line: The North Line DFAC is literally on the other side of the airfield
from us, which means you have to drive all the way around the end of the
runway to get there.  I’ve been there twice, but neither time made an
impression – I think the food is similar to Independence, but the DFAC itself
is really cramped.  Not worth it.

Monti: The only DFAC that I have never been to.  I’m not even sure I could
find it, really.  It’s far away from the lab so we just never go there.  Maybe
some day.

So as you see, we have the illusion of choice in where we go to eat, but
really it’s all the same.  The funny thing is, I think even the Boardwalk
restaurants have basically the same ingredients that the DFACs do.  I try to
eat there once a week just for the variety.  I think paying for that food
makes it seem like it’s better, somehow.  Also, there’s one shop that makes
blizzards (as in Dairy Queen, except not), which is really what makes it worth
paying once in a while.

P.S. – I probably won’t write much more about the food on KAF unless something
significant pops up (like Luxembourg suddenly turning into a 5-star
restaurant?), but if you want to know more about KAF DFACs, you should skim
through [this blog](http://justdfacsmaam.wordpress.com/).  The guy who writes
it seems to have left KAF and not come back yet, but he wrote a lot of pretty
funny stuff about his time here.