---
categories:
- Predeployment
date: 2012-06-02 05:25:15
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: IRDO, part II
type: post
---

The last full day of IRDO was what I’ve been referring to as amusement park
day.  I wish I had better photos to show what it involved.

The first stop was at the arcade where we played a very sophisticated version
of Duck Hunt.  Really it was a weapons simulator, where we shot 22 rounds on a
simulated 9 mm handgun.  The gun was basically real, with a loadable magazine,
fully working slide lock/safety/magazine release/hammer, and an actuated slide
that made it kick a little bit when you pulled the trigger.  The targets were
projected on a screen in front of us, and the results seemed pretty realistic.
This also showed why it’s a bad idea to give contractors weapons – half of the
people in there didn’t put any of their shots on target.  And the targets were
not very far away.  Yeesh.

The second stop was more of a ride – a MRAP rollover simulator.  This looked
like lots of fun while we were waiting in line for it.  It’s basically the top
half of a vehicle attached to a stage that can be rotated (360 degrees) to
simulate a rollover.  For each group, the operator tipped it sideways each way
to 17 degrees (the tipping angle for the very top-heavy vehicles), then 90,
180, and 270 degrees, holding it at each step so we could feel what that was
like . . . and to top it off, a 720 degree rollover.

![IMG-20120531-00043]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img-20120531-00043.jpg)

My phone camera doesn’t take great photos, but I didn’t have my nice camera
with me, oops.

Like I said, this looked like a fun ride while waiting in line.  Turns out,
not so much.  Did I mention that we did this wearing our body armor?  That’s
part of the realism of the simulation – 35 pounds of body armor really changes
things.  For one thing, it makes it harder to tell if you have your 5-point
harness attached right.  For me, when we went to 90 degrees the first time,
the strap on the left side of my harness slipped off my shoulder into my neck,
giving me a nice bruise there.  Also, when upside down, you have to brace your
hands on the ceiling so that not all of your weight is on your harness, plus
you have to push your chin down to avoid being choked by your vest.  We must
have looked like we were having fun, though, because when my group went
through, the operator gave us a full 1080 degrees of rolling.  One bonus
rotation.  Wheeeeeeeeee!

AOTD: MRAP – Mine Resistant, Ambush Protected.  This is a general term
describing the vehicles that the military mostly drives around in these days.
The Humvee is basically nonexistent as a tactical vehicle these days because,
as we discovered early on in Iraq, it just isn’t heavily armored enough to
make it a safe vehicle for patrolling in when there are big IEDs around.  So
instead they use MRAPs, which are big, armored, truck looking things.