---
categories:
- Living
- Working
date: 2012-09-14 23:24:45
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Stuck in the dust
type: post
---

The weather change from last weekend has definitely stuck around, but we
haven’t had any more rain.  Instead, the pattern for a few days was clear and
sunny in the morning, then dust blowing in around dinnertime and clearing out
before the next morning.  That changed on Wednesday when, instead, the dust
blew in around dinnertime and still hasn’t gone away.

![DSCN0869]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0869.jpg)

First night of dust.  This was the worst dust storm we’ve had yet and it was
as bad as it looks.

I was supposed to head out to another FOB this week, Spin Boldak.  When the
wind is blowing the right way and the dust is bad, rotary wing flights (aka
helicopters) don’t fly.  Or at least the Army transports don’t fly – I assume
more critical air traffic still happens.  So instead of seeing another
interesting place, I was stuck here in KAF all week.  On the plus side, we
have a lot of projects to work on, so I haven’t been bored.

Since I don’t have anything more interesting to write about, this seems as
good a time as any to give you an idea of my daily routine.  Skip and I do
this pretty much every day, although I try to change things up on weekends.
Otherwise I get bored.  Skip tends to work right through the weekends without
any change, but he’s a bit of a workaholic.  Then again, out here, what else
is there to do?

0700 – Wake up, check email, get ready for breakfast.

0730 – Breakfast at Luxembourg (the closest DFAC).

0800 – Facetime with Lena, drink coffee, deal with email, read the news.

0900 – Work on projects.

1200 – Lunch at Luxembourg, unless we’re out working near one of the other
DFACs.  Sometimes we try Cambridge or Niagra to change things up.  But really
it’s all the same.

1245 – Work on projects.

1700 – Head to the gym.

1830 – Shower or dinner or both, depending on whether we can get a truck to go
shower.

1930 – Depends on the day.  Some days we have teleconferences (some with
video) with our CONUS managers.  Some days we do project work.

2130 – Shower time, if we didn’t get there earlier.  Then I work, write blog
posts, and read until bedtime.

2300 – Sleep time.

The main variations to the routine are that I treat myself to dinner at the
Boardwalk over the weekend, usually.  Sometimes we go to the bazar on
Saturdays during the middle of the day.  And usually I sleep in a bit on
weekends.  I’ve been getting to the gym something like 5 days a week, which is
a nice break from working before dinnertime.

Eight weeks to go until I come home . . . yeah, I’m ready for that.  Skip is
leaving in just over two weeks, and Scott is heading out for his R&R next
week, so everyone is thinking about leaving this place right now.  Makes it a
little tough to think about another two months here.  But it should be
relatively eventful, with new people deploying here and lots of projects to
do.  Hopefully that will make it easier.