---
categories:
- Working
date: 2012-09-29 23:45:25
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: Not enough sleep
type: post
---

I’m starting off with my AOTD today, because it’s key to the story of why
yesterday was completely crazy.

AOTD: LOA – Letter Of Authorization.  This is the piece of paper contractors
carry that’s basically the equivalent of orders in the military – it states
who I am, where I’m supposed to be, and what I’m supposed to be doing there.
It has information on my company’s contract, emergency contacts, my equivalent
government employee rank, and what privileges I’m allowed (for example, I’m
allowed to eat at DFACs and use the gyms).

Crucially, an LOA also gives the contract start and end dates.  Technically,
if you have an LOA and are deployed past your contract end date, you’re not
authorized to be where you are.  According to rumor, if the authorities (MPs,
military police) catch you on base without a valid LOA, legal action is a
possibility and an escort to the next flight out is very likely.  Of course,
there are also rumored to be hundreds of contractors on KAF right now without
valid LOAs, but that’s another story.

So today is the expiration date of my current LOA, despite the fact that I’m
scheduled to remain in Afghanistan for another six weeks and the fact that my
company has a contract for this job that continues for the next two years.
And even though we’ve been talking with REF about this for the past two
months, they had to wait until the very last minute to renew the LOAs due to
some contracting nonsense that no one really understands.  This obviously
posed a problem for all of us (four people) with expiring LOAs who were
currently in Afghanistan and at risk of being kicked out.

To avoid that kind of unpleasantness, starting on Wednesday we got our
contingency plan from our manager – if we didn’t receive our LOAs by today,
we’d all get on flights to Dubai and have an unexpected vacation until the
contracting was all sorted out.  That sounds good and all, but since I was out
at Masum Ghar, that meant I had to get back to KAF in time to potentially
catch a flight today.  The helicopter options were an 0500 show time with
plenty of room for Space-A and a 2100 show time with probably no room for
Space-A.  This of course meant that to not take the risk of getting stuck, I
had to get up at 0430 yesterday, after only 3 hours of sleep because of noisy
people in our building.

I rolled out of bed and headed over to the lab to check my email – hoping I’d
have a new LOA in my inbox so I could go back to bed.  No luck.  I tried
calling my manager, but he was on a flight.  So I got all my stuff packed up
and headed over to the HLZ to wait for my flight.  It turned out that my
manager did have wifi access in flight, so he was eventually able to email me
that my LOA was “promised” to be done soon.  Of course, I’d heard that before.
But I really didn’t feel like heading back to KAF, so in the end I didn’t get
on the flight out, and my LOA actually showed up in my inbox around 0930.  No
free vacation to Dubai for the weekend, oh well.

The other half of my crazy day started from there.  One of the reasons I’m out
at Masum Ghar is that our company is having its annual managers’ meeting this
weekend in Phoenix, and they wanted us to do a little live show and tell over
our VTC (video teleconference) equipment to show off the lab capabilities.
Albert was hoping I could provide backup and assistance to him for this.  So
yesterday we spent most of the day getting all the stuff set up – all 5 of the
various video inputs hooked into the VTC system, plus a webcam for pointing at
the 3D printer and CNC machine running parts.  Since Phoenix is 11.5 hours
behind us, we were supposed to do the presentation from 0100 to 0300
Afghanistan time.

Then it turned out that someone read the schedule wrong, and it was actually
supposed to be from 0300 to 0500 Afghanistan time.  We found that out around
midnight, so we immediately went to bed for two hours, then dragged ourselves
back out to the lab.  I basically sleep-walked through the whole thing (who
knows whether or not we were at all coherent), then went back to bed.  I woke
up a few times, but basically slept all the way from 0500 to 1300 this
afternoon.  It was kind of like college, when you stay up too late, sleep past
noon, and miss breakfast and lunch.  Except that apparently I’m too old for
that because I’m not feeling so great today . . . maybe it was the 4 hours of
sleep in the previous 48 hours before I went to bed at 0500 this morning.
Needless to say, we haven’t gotten much done today.  I think my exciting plan
for the evening is dinner, pretend to work for another hour or two, and then
back to bed.