---
categories:
- Living
- Weird
date: 2012-07-13 18:38:34
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: Seasoning
type: post
---

Two unrelated items for today.  First, I should stop doing this, but this week
has once again been the hottest week I’ve experienced out here.  I’m pretty
sure that at some point soon it will stop getting hotter, because we are
currently exceeding the historical average July high temperature by about 10
degrees F.  We hit 115 on Wednesday.

![DSCN0353]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0353.jpg)

My second item for today is much more entertaining.  At least I thought so.
Possibly educational, too, if perhaps you’re unfamiliar with food.  As I was
sitting at breakfast today, eating my strangely colored eggs with toast and
“Gouda” cheese, I happened to notice that the box of salt packets on the table
was trying to educate me:

![DSCN0356]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0356.jpg)

Thank you for that explanation of why there’s salt on the table.  Maybe they
should show this to the TCNs who cook our food, since it alternates between
“um, do you guys think you could put some salt on the french fries once in a
while instead of trying to season them with grease?” and “apparently today the
chef decided that salt was the main course”.  Ha, I just noticed the little
pepper packet sticking up above the box – I swear I didn’t stage that.
Anyway, by comparison, the pepper box read like an encyclopedia entry:

![DSCN0357]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0357.jpg)

I just wonder who the guy was whose job it was to write copy for the salt and
pepper boxes for Afghanistan.  It sure wasn’t J. Peterman.

AOTD: EOD – Explosive Ordnance Disposal.  These are the guys from The Hurt
Locker who get called when someone finds or suspects something that might go
boom.  We get to work with them a lot, since much of the technological focus
of the Army right now is on counter-IED stuff – metal detectors, ground
penetrating radar, and other interesting gadgets.  These guys are truly
putting themselves in harm’s way to make things safer for other soldiers, so
I’m glad that we have the chance to help them out.