---
categories:
- Living
date: 2012-10-13 05:19:32
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Exercising in Afghanistan
type: post
---

I realize my updates have been getting a little sparse as I get toward the end
of my deployment . . . sorry!  This week happened to be especially busy, but
not with anything particularly interesting for posting about.  Dan, who’s
taking the next round of deployment out here, arrived last Sunday and I’ve
been spending a lot of time getting him up to speed on projects and acclimated
to Afghanistan.  He seems to be adjusting and fitting in well so far.  He even
thinks the food is good, which might not speak well for his judgment, but at
least he’ll be happy here.

In other news, the weather seems to be oscillating between fall and summer.
Earlier this week, it was consistently below 60 when I got up in the mornings
(0700), but today was more like 70 and it got into the 90s by midday.

![DSCN0972]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0972.jpg)

A welcome sight in the morning.

![DSCN0996]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0996.jpg)

Recently sighted in the Independence DFAC.  Not really weather related, but
still sort of winter-y.

Here’s my feature story of this post: an overview of the gym facilities in
theater.  Working out is definitely an important part of life over here for
soldiers and contractors alike (some contractors more than others . . .).  We
don’t have too many opportunities to blow off steam and a lot of the work at
KAF tends to be at a desk, so exercise is good and fun.  Every FOB, big and
small, has some kind of a gym.  Masum Ghar had four different tent buildings
filled with equipment: weight machines, cardio machines, and free weights.
KAF has at least four complete gyms that I know about and possibly more that I
don’t:

Freedom Gym (aka the Air Force gym, aka the Canadian gym): Freedom is located
in the complex that used to be Canadian and is now Air Force, hence the many
names.  It’s also the closest to our lab, so we almost always go there these
days.  It’s fairly clean and has a decent compliment of cardio machines that
usually work.  The free weights can be a little hit or miss – about half are
pounds and half are kilograms, so figuring out what you’re lifting can be
confusing.  It also has a room full of spin bikes and some space for floor
exercises.  It’s never too busy when we go, so it’s a good go-to gym.

MWR Gym (aka the Rocky gym, aka the prison gym): The MWR is sort of the main
gym, located closest to many barracks and the Niagara DFAC.  It’s big, often
crowded, and caters mostly to the free weight and power-lifting crowd (which
is why we gave it the nicknames).  I went there with Owen a couple times to
lift, since they do have lots of free weights, but it’s kind of far away and
not worth traveling to for the most part.

NATO Gym (aka the health club): I haven’t actually been to the NATO gym, but
from what I hear, it’s the nicest one.  Clean, well equipped, and all the cool
people go there.  I should probably try it once before I leave, but I’m afraid
it’ll be so nice that I won’t want to go back to Freedom.  Kind of far away
from the lab, so it’s not very convenient.

Frontline Gym (aka the private gym): The unit next door to Owen’s had space
for their own private gym, but no equipment.  So Owen’s unit donated a bunch
of equipment and his guys got to use the private gym.  We went over there a
couple of times (even though technically it was off-limits for civilians . .
.) before he left.  It was pretty nice with lots of good equipment, but the
best part was it was very clean, very cold (good air conditioning), and almost
always empty.

I’ve been working out about 5 days a week, which helps counter the effects of
DFAC food.  Plus, like I said, it’s a nice opportunity to blow off steam and
take a break from work.  I definitely miss riding a real bike outside, though.
We have some crappy mountain bikes here at the lab that I could ride if I
wanted to, but I just can’t see exercising outside here.  The dust would make
breathing kind of difficult.  Just a few more weeks until I get home and can
ride again!