---
categories:
- Living
date: 2012-07-18 17:59:45
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: Water, water, everywhere
type: post
---

My more environmentally oriented readers are probably not going to like this
post, but I think it’s an item worth sharing.  Afghanistan, as you may have
noticed, is a very hot, dry, dusty place in the summer.  The country also
lacks, shall we say, infrastructure, such as railways, roads, and municipal
water supplies (also sewers and waste treatment, but that’s a story for
another day).

In response to the first point, the American military (and presumably the rest
of ISAF, but my “training” was from the Army) has one resounding answer: DRINK
WATER.  There are signs posted all around KAF to this effect.  There are even
signs with a test on them: where on the scale of clear to orange does your
urine fall (color swatches included)?  The result of the test, no matter where
you fall: DRINK WATER.  So yeah, there’s some emphasis on hydration here.
[General Jack D. Ripper](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0057012/) would be proud,
though he’d admittedly be disappointed at the lack of grain alcohol available
here.

Anyway, one potential problem with the DRINK WATER strategy is that it might
be difficult to come by water here in Afghanistan.  KAF did not have any sort
of water supply system before we got here, and I don’t think it has an
extensive one now.  Our building has no potable running water.  The solution
to this problem is pretty simple, although it seems really inefficient to me:
bottled water is available in vast quantities.  And I do mean vast.  Here’s
the pallet of water outside our building (7 full-time people).

![DSCN0376]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0376.jpg)

For scale, those are 500 mL bottles, the only size I’ve seen on base.  They
are available absolutely everywhere – most buildings have a pallet like this
outside somewhere, plus a supply inside where it stays cooler, plus a supply
in a fridge for actually drinking.  Our pile-o-bottles in the lab:

![DSCN0374]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0374.jpg)

They come in all different brands, mostly bottled here in country.  My
favorite one is Cristal, though I couldn’t find a bottle of it for photo time
today.  Here’s what we have in the lab right now:

![DSCN0377]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0377.jpg)

One’s even licensed by Coca Cola (bottled in Kabul, it says).  I haven’t
exactly been counting, but I’d guess that on an average day I drink 6-10
bottles of water (depending on how much time I spend outside).  That’s a lot
of 500 mL water bottles.  I wish I could say that they get recycled, and maybe
some do . . . but the smell of burning plastic from the landfill site when the
wind is blowing from that direction makes me suspect otherwise.  Not an
awesome solution to a tricky problem, but I’m guessing it was the easiest,
most expedient one, and that’s just sort of how the military works.

AOTD: ISAF – International Security Assistance Force.  This is the NATO-led
group of armed forces currently in Afghanistan, fighting the remnants of the
Taliban, training the Afghan security forces, and generally just enjoying
themselves.  The soldiers get an ISAF patch on their sleeves when they deploy
over here, just in case it was unclear to anyone who’s running things.