---
categories:
- Quick update
- Working
date: 2012-07-20 20:26:43
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: 'Quick Update: Fun new toy'
type: post
---

We got a fun new toy in the lab yesterday: a 3D printer (specifically, an FDM
machine that prints in ABS plastic).  In case you’re not familiar with what a
3D printer is, basically it’s awesome.  First, you design a part using a solid
modeling computer program (in our case, a CAD program called SolidWorks).  You
send that part to another program, which slices it up into 2D horizontal
slices.  Then you send the slices to the 3D printer, and it prints the part
just like an inkjet printer does.  Instead of dispensing ink, though, it
extrudes a bead of melted plastic.  The print head moves around in 2D,
printing one slice at a time, then the table that the part is being printed on
moves down a notch, and the next layer is printed.

Here are some parts (these are air-conditioning vent adapters for an MRAP) we
made in the 3D printer that lives in the mobile lab:

![DSCN0297]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0297.jpg)

The machine we just got is the same type.  You can sort of see the lines in
the plastic where the layers are put down, but the finished product is a solid
piece of plastic.  You can basically build any shape you can imagine and draw,
as long as it fits in the machine (I think the part size maximum is about
10x12x12 inches).  We’re going to do some good stuff with this thing.

![DSCN0382]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0382.jpg)

Our shiny new 3D printer.

AOTD: FDM – Fused Deposition Modeling.  This is a type of 3D printing that
involves laying down layers of melted plastic on top of each other so that
they fuse into a solid finished part.  A secondary support material can also
be put down to hold up layers printed on top of it, then dissolved away once
the part is complete.  The only real limit to the part shapes you can make is
your imagination (and the size of the machine).