---
categories:
- Working
date: 2012-06-17 15:40:29
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Learning to Sew
type: post
---

I think I learned to sew (with a sewing machine, that is) in 7th grade.  We
made gym bags.  I’m fairly certain I still have the gym bag I made.  That’s
also probably the last time I did any serious sewing.

One of our current projects that has been extremely popular with the soldiers
is called an Improved Minehound Strap.  A Minehound is a very sophisticated
hand-held mine detector that works great, except that whoever designed it
didn’t plan on operators using it for more than an hour or two at a time.  One
of the major complaints about it is that it’s heavy and hard to use for long
periods of time because it comes with a completely useless strap.  So we
invented an improved strap that attaches to the operator’s IOTV, putting the
load on the vest (which, if it’s adjusted correctly, distributes the load to
the hips like a backpack) instead of on the arm.  Soldiers love these improved
straps.

The only problem is, even though we invented them months ago, we haven’t
gotten them manufactured in large numbers yet.  So one of the first things I
did out here was contribute to putting together a bunch of Improved Minehound
Straps, and that meant I got to learn to sew again.

Here’s a piece of strap I practiced sewing on, along with a typical resulting
snarl.

![DSCN0118]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0118.jpg)

Yeah, that’s not pretty.  Keep in mind, though, the strap is this tough,
thick, nylon webbing, and our sewing machine is a cheap home-use machine.  I’m
going to go ahead and blame our problems on that.  On the plus side, I didn’t
break any needles (unlike someone around here who broke 3 . . .).

The finished product is woefully unexciting, but that’s ok.  We’re doing
everything from “no-tech” (like this) to high-tech, and sometimes the simple
solution is the best one.

![DSCN0123]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0123.jpg)

A nearly finished Improved Minehound Strap next to our much-abused sewing
machine.