---
categories:
- Quick update
- Travel
- Working
date: 2012-08-19 01:36:54
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: 'Quick Update: On the move'
type: post
---

A bit of excitement for me here today, so I’m interrupting my series of R&R
posts.  One of my coworkers is heading out for R&R on Wednesday, so I’m taking
his place for a week or two to help out with a big influx of projects.  He’s
one of the two engineers staffing the mobile lab.  I’m not sure I’ve actually
mentioned the mobile lab before – it’s a fully stocked engineering lab (CNC
machine, 3D printer, lots of computers, and cabinets full of tools and
electronics) stuffed into a shipping container with a generator and a
satellite communication system.  Basically, it’s a semi self-contained lab
just like the one in KAF (except everything is newer) that can be put on a
truck or aircraft and moved  around the world.

Right now, the mobile lab sitting on a FOB called Masum Ghar, which is a
large-ish base not too far from KAF.  So today, I flew out there with Scott,
the manager working at the mobile lab.  After a reasonable wait at the
passenger terminal, they got us suited up, out on the flight line, and
actually let us on to the helicopters this time.

![DSCN0408]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0408.jpg)

My helmet doesn’t feel that crooked when I’m wearing it . . . maybe needs some
adjustment, though.

I should have gotten a window seat, but I had a big duffle bag with me, and I
couldn’t quite maneuver it in front of the guy who ended up on my left.
Luckily, Scott had his camera accessible and a window seat, so you get to see
me on my first helicopter ride, plus a bird’s eye view of Kandahar province.
We stopped at 3 or 4 FOBs on our way over, so I got a nice tour of the region.

![DSCN0414]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn04141.jpg)

We flew over the hills northwest of KAF and found a fairly sizeable city over
there.  Kandahar, maybe?  Not really sure.

![DSCN0416]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0416.jpg)

Our wingman taking off after us leaving one of the FOBs on our trip out.

![DSCN0421]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn04211.jpg)

Mountainous terrain on the flight over.

![DSCN0422]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0422.jpg)

Apparently Afghanistan isn’t all desert.  We flew over a bunch of rivers like
this one.

That’s all the excitement for now.  Masum Ghar is a pretty interesting FOB, so
I might try to take some more photos around here.  It’s the only FOB I’ve seen
so far that has its own mountain.