---
categories:
- Living
date: 2012-11-07 03:37:14
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Almost ready to go
type: post
---

One more day to go in my deployment and my body decided to celebrate by
getting sick on Sunday night.  Not too bad, just a cold, but it’s making the
last week a little less fun.  My eagerness to get on my flight home is now
tempered by knowing that I’m probably going to feel miserable the whole trip.
Yaaaaay.  Also, hopefully I’ve taught Charlie everything he needs to know,
because my brain is done emptying of information.  For your enjoyment, here
are a couple of items I’ve been meaning to post about but hadn’t gotten around
to:

![DSCN1116_cropped]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn1116_cropped.jpg)

Lena sent me a care package, but apparently the postal employee got confused
when selling the postage.  This is the result: $6.85 electronic postage, plus
10 Forever stamps to make up the difference in whatever it was supposed to
cost.

![DSCN1119]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn1119.jpg)

This is our slushie (slushy?) machine.  We offer slushies to soldiers who come
by and it’s very popular in the summer.  This time of year it’s a bit more
neglected.  The best flavor is mango.

![DSCN1120]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn1120.jpg)

This is one of our REF trucks.  The T on the front does not stand for Toyota
or any other brand you’ve probably heard of – this is a Tata Xenon.

![DSCN1121]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn1121.jpg)

It has 4WD, air-conditioning (sort of), anti-lock brakes (apparently?), and no
radio. It also has 3000 km on it and sounds like it’s ready for a tune-up or
possibly an engine overhaul.  This is what happens when the government
purchases trucks from the lowest bidder (although admittedly the dust here
probably doesn’t help).

That’s all for today.  I may have one more post from Afghanistan in me
tomorrow night, but if not, next time you hear from me will probably be from
CONUS.  Woohoo!