---
categories:
- Living
- R&amp;R
date: 2012-07-26 19:05:36
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Smelly KAF, smelly KAF . . .
type: post
---

KAF has a certain reputation for being a bit smelly.  There are two
contributing factors to this and neither of them is really awesome.  By way of
explanation, here’s the Google map view of KAF:

![image]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/image.png)

The blue star is where I live.  The red circle toward the bottom-left shows
where the base waste treatment plant is (more on this below).  The grid of
streets just to the right of the waste treatment plant is where a bunch of
housing is, including the barracks where our showers are located.  The other
red circle shows where our trash goes (trash disposal is by burning).  The big
black arrow shows the prevailing wind direction.  The alternative prevailing
wind (maybe 10% of the time?) is in exactly the opposite direction.  See any
potential problems with this setup?

First, I suppose, you might ask why you’d place a waste treatment plant in the
middle of a base in the first place.  There’s really no good explanation that
I can think of, unless it was already there when we got here.  We did hear a
rumor that they wanted to move it, but NATO wouldn’t put up the money
necessary.  Blame aside, this is fairly terrible for everyone who lives
downwind, which is where most of the base is.  When the wind is blowing the
other way (seems to be mostly at night), the noxious smoke from trash burning
makes the air quality even worse.  Fun times.

Anyway, since the waste treatment plant is such a landmark on base, it
acquired a name: the Poo Pond.  Which is a very apt description.  Yesterday, I
had the misfortune to need to take a trip directly past the Poo Pond.  On the
plus side, I wasn’t driving, so I got to take photos of all the signs brave
souls have posted over the years.

![DSCN0402]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0402.jpg)

The official signs.

![signs_2]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/signs_22.jpg) ![signs_3]({{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/signs_32.jpg) ![signs_4]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/signs_42.jpg)
![signs_1]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/signs_12.jpg)

The less official signs.

So KAF may be smelly, but at least we have fun here . . . or something like
that.

On that note, I only have one more day until I leave for R&R!  I’ll post
something tomorrow about the Iceland plan and then I probably won’t post again
until I return with lots of photos.