---
categories:
- R&amp;R
date: 2012-08-23 04:29:05
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Iceland, Part 3
type: post
---

**8/5 – Driving day, **Stykkisholmur to **Kirkjubaejarklaustur******

This day was mostly driving the 260ish miles from Stykkisholmur, way up in the
northwest part of Iceland, to the tiny town with a mouthful of a name that the
locals just call “Klaustur” in the middle of the south coast.  Klaustur has a
population of around 100 people, two or three restaurants, and a gas station.
It’s also a major tourist destination because of its proximity to Vatnajokull
National Park, which is exactly why we stayed there.

![IMG_0178]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0178.jpg)

On the way to Klaustur, we drove past Eyjafjallajokull, the volcano that
erupted in 2010 and shut down air traffic in the region due to ash in the air.
It was invisible behind the clouds, but this signboard showed a photo from the
eruption.  I’m not sure I’d want to be living in that farm, but then again,
there are volcanoes all over the island.

![DSCN0656]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0656.jpg)

We did see some glaciers on the drive around the coast.  This view is across a
lava field toward a glacier whose name I can’t find.  You might think that all
those rock outcroppings in the foreground are natural lava formations, but
you’d be wrong.  People in Iceland love to pile rocks on top of other rocks,
and at this rest stop, they’d taken it to the extreme.  Every loose rock for
miles around was piled up here.

![IMG_0181]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0181.jpg)

Once we got to Klaustur, we found the main attraction in town – a natural
pavement of basalt columns called Kirkjugolf (church floor).  Oooh, ahh.

**8/6 – Hiking in Skaftafell**

Skaftafell is part of Vatnajokull National Park, which is mostly covered by a
huge glacial ice cap.  The main access to the park is through a valley carved
by glaciers and flood waters.  We decided we’d spend the day in the park,
hiking a loop on one of the ridges overlooking the glacier.

[![DSCN0662]({{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/dscn0662_thumb.jpg)](http://engineeringftw.files.wordpress.com/2012/08/dscn06621.jpg)

This is our first good view of two of the glaciers coming down from the ice
cap.

![IMG_0186]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0186.jpg)

These girders used to be part of a bridge over one of the glacial rivers.
Then something called a
[jokulhlaup](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J%C3%B6kulhlaup) happened.  That’s a
fun word for when geothermal (sometimes volcanic) heating melts a glacier from
the bottom and then the ice breaks.  They can release incredible volumes of
water in very short amounts of time.  The jokulhlaups that happen occasionally
(every 10 or 20 years, I think) in this area are so damaging that Iceland
decided to not even try to build bridges to withstand them.  They just rebuild
the bridges when they get destroyed.

![DSCN0664]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0664.jpg)

Not sure how legible this is, but we started from near the campsite (bottom of
the map), headed up to Svartifoss, then took the trail labeled S3 up and along
the ridgeline.  We split off onto S4, went up over a very steep ridge, and
came down by way of the rest of the S3 loop.  It was something like 10 miles
with 3000 feet of altitude change, and we didn’t bring enough water.  But it
was fun and the views were amazing.

![DSCN0666]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0666.jpg)

The first photo op was a little, possibly unnamed waterfall (of which there
are many in Iceland), which we completely blocked when we took a timer photo.
Oh well.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0193.jpg)

Svartifoss is a big attraction – it’s a nifty 45 foot fall among undercut
basalt columns and it’s not too far up the trail from the parking area.  The
rocks and fall almost look manmade.

![IMG_0194]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0194.jpg)

As we reached the first ridgeline, we had sweeping views across grassy meadows
to the ice cap.

![DSCN0672]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0672.jpg)

The saddle to the right of the high peak in the foreground is our destination.
Doesn’t look so bad from here.

![IMG_0198]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0198.jpg)

The view from our lunch spot over the valley to the west of the ridge we were
hiking up.  At one point, a giant chunk of ice fell off of this glacier,
followed by an avalanche of ice and snow.  Lesson: don’t walk under glaciers.

![DSCN0680]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0680.jpg)

After lunch, we hiked up this talus slope.  It was steep and whoever decided
to put the trail there had never heard of switchbacks.  Since the footing was
loose, slippery stone, it made for an exhausting climb up.  The view at the
top, however, was worth it.

![DSCN0684]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0684.jpg)



[![DSCN0686]({{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/dscn0686_thumb.jpg)](http://engineeringftw.files.wordpress.com/2012/08/dscn06861.jpg)

Totally worth it. From the top, we had this sweeping, panoramic view of the
glacier and ice cap beyond.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0205.jpg)

We could have kept going up this peak (look, someone knew how to make
switchbacks!), but with water supplies running low, we decided to head down
the other side of the ridge, back to the visitor center.

That wasn’t all for the day, though – we dragged our tired selves a few miles
further east to Jokulsarlon, a lagoon where a glacier comes all the way down
and meets the ocean.  It’s kind of hard to describe, so here’s a photo.

[![DSCN0694]({{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/dscn0694_thumb.jpg)](http://engineeringftw.files.wordpress.com/2012/08/dscn06941.jpg)

Apparently they’ve filmed a bunch of movies here, including the James Bond one
with the ice palace and the cars driving around and blowing up on the ice.

![DSCN0700]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0700.jpg)

Some of the ice is really blue, some is a normal white, and some of it has
lots of black sediment in it.

![DSCN0696]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0696.jpg)

It was a very nice way to end our most picturesque day in Iceland.

Whew, this R&R retelling is getting long.  I think the next time I take a two
week vacation, I’m going to blog less about it.  Just a few more days of
Iceland to cover and some of them were quite rainy, so I think one more post
should do it.  Stay tuned.