---
categories:
- Living
- Weird
date: 2012-09-04 02:17:45
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: 'Food, Part 2: A smaller FOB'
type: post
---

I was just looking through my posts and realized I’ve only written Part 1 of
my many part series about food in Afghanistan.  That seems a little
neglectful, seeing as food is a very important part of everyone’s lives out
here.  One of the other contractors that we have the delight of working with
sometimes (not that delightful) refers to breakfast, lunch, and dinner as
milestones 1, 2, and 3.  As in, after milestone 3, I can finally call it a day
(although he would throw at least 3 f-bombs into that sentence).  I’m not sure
what it is, exactly, since the food here isn’t all that good, but it’s nice to
take a break from working for meals.  Plus they have TV in the DFACs, so
that’s where I’m most likely to catch SportsCenter.

Anyway, the food here at Masum Ghar is very different from KAF.  In some ways
it’s a lot better.  The guys running the DFAC are American soldiers, which
means the food is a _lot_ more normal.  This is definitely a good thing.  They
aren’t afraid to get creative, but we don’t have any atrocities like cheese
and onion salad (and not a good salad, more like a tuna salad, but instead of
tuna, cheese and onions) that show up all the time at KAF.

Dinners are usually pretty decent.  Tonight, I had trout (which was actually
really good), a cheese enchilada (eh), and a salad with lettuce, tomatoes,
cucumbers, and carrots.  On certain nights (I think it’s usually Friday), they
make an attempt at surf and turf – my first week here, they actually served
steak (overcooked, but at least flavorful) and lobster tails (real, cold water
lobster, also overcooked, but not to the point of inedibility).  I wish I had
remembered my camera for that one.  This Saturday they had crab legs
(perfectly cooked and delicious).  I’m not saying we’re eating gourmet here,
but the chefs really make an effort.

A couple things are worse than at KAF, although I can’t really complain too
much.  Lunches are usually leftover dinner food, so that’s a little hit or
miss.  There are also times when supplies don’t make it out here – for about a
week there, we had almost zero fresh fruits or vegetables, and the canned
stuff gets pretty old.

Breakfasts are interesting.  Just like all the DFACs on KAF, they have made to
order omelets, as well as hot food (scrambled eggs, pancakes, bacon, sausage .
. .).  I’m not a big breakfast person usually, so I’ve been skipping the hot
food most days and going for cereal.  Unlike KAF, they have individual
portions of everything in the cereal aisle (at home – no weird European stuff
here!), so there’s usually a good selection.  The only problem is the milk
situation.  Some days, they have all kinds of choices, but some days, these
are the choices:

![BananaMilk]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/bananamilk.jpg) ![StrawberryMilk]({{
site.baseurl }}/assets/strawberrymilk.jpg)

Bananas are good on cereal (even if Lena doesn’t think so).  Strawberries,
too.  But milk artificially flavored like these fruits?  I mean, why would you
even order this stuff for an Army DFAC?  It’s like what you serve the kids in
elementary school cafeterias to get them to drink milk when they only want
sugary drinks.  So I don’t know who decided to order these, but some mornings
(almost 50% of the time, actually), the choices are banana milk, strawberry
milk, or chocolate milk.  In case you were wondering, banana is the only one
that’s any good on cereal.  If they don’t have banana or regular, or vanilla
soy milk (only if I’m lucky), I put my cereal back and go get some toast.

![Milk]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/milk.jpg)

Note to DFAC supply people: only order regular milk.  No one likes fruit-
flavored milk.

The other interesting (in a good way) thing here is that they have a whole
counter full of packaged food that you can take away with you.  On KAF, there
are signs all over the DFACs telling you how it’s illegal to remove food or
drinks from the DFAC (unless you have a takeout box).  Here, sanity reigns
(well, except with milk), and you’re encouraged to.  They have everything from
MREs to Pop-tarts, Nutrigrain bars, Clif bars, and bags of M&Ms.  I may have
to stock up on some of these before I head back to KAF.