---
categories:
- Living
date: 2012-07-07 13:45:29
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Independence Day, KAF style
type: post
---

I had a busy week, so I apologize for the late July 4th update, but here it is
finally.

There were some official celebrations over at the Boardwalk, but we skipped
those in favor of our own 4th of July fun.  A while back, Jon made friends
with some of our lab neighbors: a medic who works in the troop medical clinic
next door and one of the supervisors at the KAF fire department, which is
between our lab and the airfield.  It turns out the two of them were
organizing a July 4th party at the firehouse and they stopped by the lab on
Monday for some technical support.  They wanted someone to help them with the
release mechanism for a dunk tank and they knew who to turn to for such
things.

So Skip helped them put that together on Tuesday and by Wednesday afternoon
they had a dunk tank.  As the fire department, they had plenty of access to
water and even had an inflatable pool to use below the dunk platform.

![DSCN0335]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0335.jpg)

In addition to the dunk tank, which was only sort of popular despite the 112
degree heat again, there was a ton of food.  They somehow got their hands on
enough meat to feed about 200 people, including sausages, hamburgers, chicken,
steak, salmon, and two whole pigs, which they roasted for a few hours.

![DSCN0334]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0334.jpg)

Next party we’ll have to build them a rotisserie so they don’t have to turn
the spits by hand.  No, none of the food was local – apparently the British
guys at the firehouse know how to get food flown in to them.  So yeah, the
British firefighters threw a pretty good 4th of July party.  If nothing else,
the British do have a good sense of irony.

We even had a parade – the firefighters got a call for a fuel leak on the
airstrip at some point, and rolled all of the giant airfield fire engines out
to the runway.  These are some pretty awesome trucks.

![DSCN0336]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0336.jpg)

Overall, not a bad Independence Day.  No fireworks (which, out here, is good)
and nothing too exciting, but it was a fairly nice and relaxing day.