---
categories:
- Living
date: 2012-06-29 21:18:46
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: Food, Part I
type: post
---

I’m going to call this post Part I because I’ve been meaning to post about
meals here, but I keep forgetting to take photos.  But Thursday I actually
remembered to get pictures of my breakfast and my dinner, so now I can write
about it a little bit.  The food here is significant enough that I doubt I can
cover everything in one post, so this is Part I.  Don’t hold your breath for
Part II.

The food here is available in vast quantities and in fair to middling quality
and variety.  For example, the DFAC where I eat breakfast has _almost_ exactly
the same food every single morning – hard boiled and scrambled eggs, hash
browns, beans, stewed tomatoes, a cereal bar, grapefruit, yogurt, wheat and
white bread for toast, and cooked to order eggs and omelets.   The variable
items are either pancakes or french toast, and some form of pastry (usually
either doughnuts or croissants).

Items that are better than you might expect: bread (apparently baked fresh),
doughnuts (excellent, unless jelly-filled), and eggs cooked to order (almost
orange yolks and very tasty).  Items that are worse than you might expect:
omelets cooked to order (fillings are always cold) and croissants (incredibly
greasy, somehow).  Everything else is about what you’d expect from a buffet
breakfast.  Here’s what I usually eat:

![DSCN0305]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0305.jpg)

Sometimes I throw in a grapefruit half or eggs over easy, but usually it’s
toast, yogurt, juice and coffee.  Note the Nutella-like spread, which is
delicious.  If they had peanut butter, I’d go for that sometimes, but alas,
they don’t.  Mmm, nuss-nougatcreme.

![DSCN0306]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0306.jpg)

Lunch and dinner, we go different places different days (more on the different
DFACs in Part II), but the ingredients are generally very similar.  There’s
also the fact that most (all?) of the folks preparing our food are Pakistanis
or Filipinos who may have a different interpretation of what certain dishes
are.  Yes, the TCNs keep meals interesting.

![DSCN0316]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0316.jpg)

This is actually not a typical meal, but it’s what I had for dinner the other
day.  Here we have pasta (farfalle, in fact) to which I’ve added half alfredo
sauce and half tomato-basil sauce, plus a generous sprinkle of “cheddar”
cheese.  On the side, a green bean and asparagus salad (cold, cooked veggies)
and a few slices of roast pork for my protein.  For dessert, a chocolate thing
with a little vanilla pudding for good measure, and an apple.  I like apples.

There’s usually a pasta bar for dinner, which is good, because the hot meal
items are almost always worth skipping.  There’s usually a really odd
selection of “salads” – things like pineapple and cheese, ham and tomatoes,
Mexican salad (no clue what’s in it, but it does not look healthy), and other
items that are clearly recycled from previous meals, mixed together with other
leftovers.  Some of these are ok – the green beans were good, there’s also a
good corn salad.  Some are just plain scary.

The best thing I’ve eaten so far here were barbeque pork ribs, which were
surprisingly decent.  The worst thing so far may have been the potato salad I
had at lunch today.  Actually, I seem to remember having to go back to the
food area one time because my whole plate was basically inedible, but I forget
what that one was.  Yeah, DFAC food can be a little hit or miss.

Ok, when I get to it, Part II is going to include more on the differences
between the DFACs.  That’ll be fun.  Part III might be "weird things I’ve seen
at the DFAC”.  I’ll have to start remembering my camera more.

AOTD: TCN – Third Country National.  These are contracted personnel in
Afghanistan who are working for the US (or NATO or ISAF as the case may be, I
suppose) who are neither Afghan locals nor Americans.  There are a ton of TCNs
from Pakistan and the Phillipines here who work in the DFACs and some of the
other service oriented jobs around KAF.