---
categories:
- Books
- History
- Science
date: 2015-10-08 20:41:00
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: 'What I''ve Been Reading Lately: The Making of the Atomic Bomb'
type: post
---

One of my friends referred me to [_The Making of the Atomic Bomb_, by Richard
Rhodes](http://www.amazon.com/The-Making-Atomic-Bomb-
Anniversary/dp/1451677618), last year.  I haven’t been doing much writing over
the past year or so, but I have been doing lots of reading.  It's been a while
since I last wrote a book report, but now I’m going to do some writing about
my reading.

### I believe this is what you might call a “tome”

The book had been sitting on my shelf for quite a few months before I finally
got into it for one good reason: this is a massive book, and requires some
commitment to read it.

[![IMG_20150916_185744887_HDR]({{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/img_20150916_185744887_hdr_thumb1.jpg)](http://engineeringftw.files.wordpress.com/2015/09/img_20150916_185744887_hdr1.jpg)

900 pages of historical goodness.  Pen shown for scale.

The book overall is really interesting – it gets into depth on backgrounds of
the major scientists involved in the Manhattan Project, especially the
Europeans, as well as into the progress of physics research that led to the
discovery of fission.  There’s also plenty of discussion of the massive
political, engineering, and logistics effort required to make the Project
succeed.  I definitely recommend the book if you’re interested in these topics
– the engineering aspects are mind-blowing.

My favorite subplot (it’s not even really big enough to be a subplot, more
like a subfootnote) of the book, though, was about the Vemork hydroelectric
plant.

### _Kampen om tungtvannet_

Like many Americans, my knowledge of World War II is limited to a general
outline of events, plus a few detailed episodes (ok, some of these might be
more than some other Americans can think of): the Battle of Britain, Pearl
Harbor, D-Day (thank you _The Longest Day_ and _Saving Private Ryan_ ),
American bombing campaigns staged from Pianosa (that happened, right?),
concentration camps, and the dropping of the atomic bombs in Japan.  I expect
that I’m not the only one who had not previously heard of Vemork and _kampen
om tungtvannet_ (“the heavy water war”).  This story is the real-life stuff of
spy movies.

The Vemork hydroelectric plant is located in the middle of southern Norway, on
a river in the mountains west of Oslo.  At the time it was built, it was one
of the largest power plants in the world (145,000 hp or ~108 MW in
1911)[[1]](http://english.nia.eyego.no/the-machine-hall/).  All this power was
needed to fix nitrogen into synthetic fertilizers, a new industrial process at
the time that revolutionized agriculture.  For reasons that are not entirely
clear, by the 1930s the plant was also producing heavy water (i.e., water
where the hydrogen isotope deuterium has replaced ordinary hydrogen) and was
the only large scale source for this material in the world.  Large scale is
relative, of course – it sounds like they were able to produce something like
30 gallons per month.

### Science

Bear with me here (especially if you’re a physicist and I’m getting this wrong
– feel free to correct me), because I’m going to try to describe why heavy
water is useful.

During the late 1930s, physicists figured out that fission was a thing.  Once
it was apparent that large quantities of energy could be released by splitting
atoms, physicists also started figuring out what could be done with that
energy.  The two ideas that they came up with were, of course, bombs and
electricity production.  Both rely on self-sustaining chain reactions, where
neutrons released from one atom when it splits fly around and hit other atoms,
causing them to split, too.  The likelihood of one of these collisions
resulting in another fission (which happens when the atom absorbs the
neutron), rather than the neutron just bouncing off (scattering), is related
to the speed of the neutrons.  Fast neutrons are less likely to be absorbed,
slow neutrons are more likely.

So what is heavy water good for?  It is an excellent neutron moderator – a
material that can change neutrons from fast to slow while not absorbing them
itself.  Slower neutrons make a chain reaction easier because they are less
likely to end up flying out of the fissile material altogether before being
absorbed by another fissile atom and causing it to split.  During this time,
many physicists (especially in Germany) believed that the way to build an
atomic bomb was likely to take enough fissile material (i.e., uranium), mix it
with the right neutron moderator, and boom.  This turned out to be somewhat
wrong, but that’s another story.

Considering the rarity of heavy water production, by 1940 Vemork had been
recognized by both the Allied and Axis powers as a significant strategic asset
for physics (and therefore weapons) research.  Thus begins the fascinating
part of the story.

### Episode 1, in which the French outwit the Germans

This story has 5-ish parts, the facts of which I’m pulling entirely from
Rhodes.

Germany made the first play to obtain significant heavy water supplies in
early 1940.  A German company approached Norsk Hydro, owner of the Vemork
plant, offered to buy all of the heavy water on hand (around 50 gallons), and
proposed to order an additional 30 gallons per month into the future.  At this
point, Germany was at war with Britain and France, but had not yet invaded any
of the Scandinavian countries.  The Norwegians were obviously concerned about
German activities, though, and asked why Germany wanted so much heavy water.
The company refused to say, and so Norsk Hydro refused to sell.

Meanwhile, French physicists had advised their government that heavy water
might be useful for fission research.  When information about the German
purchase attempt reached the French, they therefore determined to go buy the
Norsk Hydro stock themselves.  A team of French agents led by a former bank
officer named Jacque Allier secretly entered Norway prepared to pay a lot of
money for the rare substance.  Once they told the Norwegians about the
potential military use of the water, however, Norsk Hydro decided to donate it
to the cause instead.  Rhodes writes succinctly:

> The water, divided among twenty-six cans, left Vemork by car soon afterward
on a dark midnight.  From Oslo Allier’s team flew it to Edinburgh in two loads
– German fighters forced down for inspection a decoy plane Allier had
pretended to board at the time of the first loading – and then transported it
by rail and Channel ferry to Paris,

thus outflanking the Germans.  There’s enough material in this one paragraph
for a decent movie, but this is only the beginning.

### Episode 2, in which British commandos succumb to bad luck

A few months later, of course, Germany invaded and conquered Norway, securing
the Norsk Hydro facility for themselves.  Although most of their best
physicists had fled the Nazi regime, fission research continued in Germany
with a focus on self-sustaining reactions using heavy water as a neutron
moderator.  British and American programs were mostly pursuing a quite
different (and ultimately more successful) direction, but were still worried
about German progress.  In late 1942, the British, working with the Norwegian
resistance, decided that they would attempt to sabotage the Norsk Hydro plant.

First, four Norwegian commandos parachuted into the area to reconnoiter.  A
month later, British bombers towed two gliders full of demolition engineers to
Norway.  The engineers were supposed to rendezvous with the commandos to
attack the plant, but bad weather and bad luck intervened.  The gliders (and
one of the towing bombers) crashed well outside of their target landing zone,
and all survivors were executed by the Gestapo.  The Norwegian commandos were
forced to retreat into the frozen wilderness, where they barely survived for
several months.  The [Wikipedia
article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Freshman) on this operation
offers many more details.

### Episode 3, in which Norwegian commandos are total bad-asses

Despite this failure, the British decided that the plant had to be sabotaged,
and came up with a new plan.  Six Norwegians, native to the area and trained
for the task, parachuted into the mountains later that winter and met up with
the original four commandos.  While the original four celebrated having food
again, one of the new commandos skied the 30 miles to Vemork to scope out
German defenses of the plant.  He found minefields, search lights, and machine
guns, but only 15 guards on duty.  The plant was fortress-like in its location
on the side of a mountain atop a steep ravine with a river at the bottom.

Nine of the commandos headed to the plant and came up with a plan.  They
crossed the ravine and the river and entered through a completely undefended
rail entrance.  Four of them slipped in, cut a chain with bolt cutters, and
crawled through a duct that led into the heavy water production area.  They
set their demolition charges and fired them, blowing open all eighteen heavy
water cells and sending all of the heavy water on hand down the drain.  From
outside, the five commandos providing cover barely heard the explosion – the
Germans also seemed not to realize what had happened.  Without firing a shot,
all nine of the Norwegians departed rapidly and were well away from the plant
before the Germans even sounded their alarm sirens.

### Episode 4, in which American precision bombing is good enough

By mid-1943, it became clear that although the sabotage mission had succeeded
and set production back, it had not damaged the plant beyond repair and
production had resumed.  With security at the plant now on high alert, another
commando raid was unlikely to succeed.  With American bombers now flying
missions out of Britain, the Allies decided to try bombing the plant instead.

“Precision” bombing, especially during World War II, is a bit of a euphemism,
since large bombs are anything but precise in their effects and the technology
was new.  Still, American bombers did try to aim at targets when they dropped
their bombs.  In November 1943, 140 American B-17s attacked Vemork, dropping
more than 700 500-pound bombs.  According to Rhodes, none  of them hit the
target aiming point, but they still did enough damage to disable the heavy
water production at the plant.

At this point, Germany decided that the plant was too difficult to defend, and
planned to bring the heavy water production equipment to Germany instead for
installation in a new plant.

### Episode 5, in which the Norwegians win again

Without a dedicated high power hydroelectric plant available, the Allies
weren’t especially worried that the Nazis would actually be able to produce
useful amounts of heavy water in Germany even with the equipment from Vemork.
They did not, however, want Nazi researchers to get their hands on the
existing heavy water already produced.  With a week or two of warning, Allied
intelligence learned that the Germans were planning to move this water to
Germany.

With no time to organize a new force to intercept the shipment, they turned to
a Norwegian commando who had remained in the country following the successful
raid on the Vemork plant.  Knut Haukelid would have to conduct this mission
alone.

After gathering information from the Norwegians still forced to work at the
plant by the occupying forces, Haukelid determined that the best chance of
destroying the shipment would be while it was being shipped on a ferry across
a lake.  He gathered supplies to build a timed bomb (a mechanical alarm clock
and detonators), calculated how large a hole he needed it to punch in the
ferry’s hull, and planned to plant it.

The night before the shipment, he and two recruited locals boarded the ferry
to plant the bomb.  They were spotted by the ferry watchman, but convinced him
that they were trying to hide from the Gestapo.  After spending a few hours
standing in freezing water in the bilge, assembling the charges and
detonators, they set the timer and left to escape to Sweden.

The next morning, the ferry left its departure point on time and 45 minutes
later the bomb blew a large hole in the hull near the bow.  The heavy water
supply, stored in drums inside freight cars, broke loose of the ferry deck and
sank almost immediately, as did the ferry itself.  Of the 53 people on board,
26 drowned, but the mission was a success.  Germany would not receive any
heavy water from the Norwegian plant.

### Epilogue

Although German physicists were working on fission during the war, it is known
now that they were nowhere near obtaining an atomic bomb.  It also seems
unlikely that a better supply of heavy water would have substantially advanced
their program.  The strategy was sound – heavy water could have been used to
build a breeder reactor to transmute uranium to plutonium, relieving them of
the extremely onerous task of separating fissile U-235 from more abundant
U-238.  This separation required an incredible and expensive engineering
effort to succeed in the US.  But beyond obtaining the raw materials, the
Manhattan Project also had to figure out how to assemble them into bombs, a
highly nontrivial task.  A more likely scenario, and one that the British had
considered, would have been to attempt to disperse highly toxic plutonium or
other radioactive elements over London by means of V-2 rockets, for example.

In the end, the Allies won the heavy water war at a cost almost certainly
justified by the risks averted.  The stories from these episodes are really
incredible – and, it turns out, they were even made into
[several](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0040504/) (factual)
[movies](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0059263) (less factual) and even a recent
[TV series](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt3280150).

### Norway

One last thing that came up as I was writing about this story from the Rhodes
book: the story of the Norwegian resistance to the Nazi occupation.  I’ve
always been an insatiable reader, which means I’ve read way more books than I
can remember.  I have no idea how I came across this one, because I don’t
think it’s a terribly popular children’s book (Norway during WWII is kind of
an unusual setting), but I definitely read it: [Snow Treasure, by Marie
McSwigan](http://www.amazon.com/Snow-Treasure-Marie-McSwigan/dp/0142402249).
The (possibly) true story of how children on sleds helped smuggle millions of
dollars worth of gold out of the country to keep it out of Nazi hands.  Lesson
learned: don’t mess with Norway.