---
layout: page
title: AOTD
date: 2012-06-14 06:56:39.000000000 -07:00
type: page
published: true
status: publish
categories: []
tags: []
---
<p>I’m compiling my comprehensive list of Acronyms Of The Day here for your reference (and my reference!).</p>
<p>ACH – Advanced Combat Helmet. (see IBA)</p>
<p>AKO – Army Knowledge Online.  This, like many military terms, seems to be an oxymoron since I have yet to find any helpful knowledge on AKO.  It is, however, the authorization system through which I can receive my extremely useful predeployment online training (more about this in a later post).  None of which is actually located inside the AKO system.</p>
<p>AMR – Air Movement Request. If we want to fly somewhere in Afghanistan, and we know about it far enough ahead of time (7-10 days), we can file an AMR to get a semi-reserved seat on a flight. Sometimes you get bumped if a sufficiently high-ranking person needs to take your seat, but mostly this is like booking a flight. There are other ways of flying, which I’ll cover later.</p>
<p>CNC – Computer Numerical Control. The acronym doesn’t make it very clear, but in this context, a CNC machine is basically a milling machine controlled by a computer program. The CNC machine allows us to make a computer model of a solid object and actually machine it out of metal or plastic. You start by fixing a chunk of your material to a table inside the CNC machine. The table can translate back and forth in two directions based on commands from a computer. The mill head (sort of like a drill, but with different types of bits for different cuts) can move up and down, also based on computer commands. You translate the computer model of your part into “toolpaths” (trajectories for the table and mill head to take), hit start, and hope you did it right.</p>
<p>COMKAF – COMmander of Kandahar AirField. COMKAF in most cases refers to the building where the base is commanded from, which happens to be right next door to our lab. The building has an interesting history; it’s (officially?) referred to as TLS – Taliban’s Last Stand. It’s the building where the last of the Taliban command structure holed up when we came in back in 2001. The hole in the ceiling where the JDAM (Joint Direct Attack Munition – a big, precision-guided bomb) came in is somewhat preserved.</p>
<p>CONUS – CONtinental United States.  This is opposed to OCONUS, which is Outside of CONUS.  Some sources say that it’s actually CONtiguous (as in the lower 48, whereas continental could include Alaska).  In my mind, OCONUS means outside of the 50 states, really – but who ever said acronyms had to make sense?  Anyway, since I don’t have either Hawaii or Alaska on my itinerary, OCONUS is functionally equivalent to “foreign countries”.</p>
<p>COP – Combat OutPost. A COP is the next-sized down base from a FOB – somewhere in the 100-500 soldier range. Despite the “combat” part of the name, most COPs in Afghanistan are very well established bases that have been in place and heavily fortified for long enough that they never come under attack anymore.CRC – CONUS Replacement Center, now apparently known as IRDO. (see IRDO)</p>
<p>DFAC – Dining Facility.  Also known as a mess hall.  The food is ok, not great, and available in vast quantities.  I’ll probably have more to say about DFAC food in the future (maybe some photos?), but now you know what a DFAC is at least.</p>
<p>DoD – Department of Defense.  Ok, that was an easy one, you probably already knew it.</p>
<p>EOD – Explosive Ordnance Disposal. These are the guys from The Hurt Locker who get called when someone finds or suspects something that might go boom. We get to work with them a lot, since much of the technological focus of the Army right now is on counter-IED stuff – metal detectors, ground penetrating radar, and other interesting gadgets. These guys are truly putting themselves in harm’s way to make things safer for other soldiers, so I’m glad that we have the chance to help them out.</p>
<p>FDM – Fused Deposition Modeling. This is a type of 3D printing that involves laying down layers of melted plastic on top of each other so that they fuse into a solid finished part. A secondary support material can also be put down to hold up layers printed on top of it, then dissolved away once the part is complete. The only real limit to the part shapes you can make is your imagination (and the size of the machine).</p>
<p>FOB – Forward Operating Base. A FOB is the largest size category of bases in Afghanistan. Kandahar and Bagram are usually referred to as “super-FOBs”, since they are larger than the average FOB. I haven’t seen many, but I gather that the typical FOB is home to something like 500 to 2,000 soldiers. KAF and Bagram have significantly more than that.</p>
<p>HLZ – Helicopter Landing Zone.The HLZ is the spot on most FOBs where helicopters land. You can also have HLZs pretty much anywhere, I guess – the main criteria are flat-ish terrain and lack of tall objects.</p>
<p>IBA – Interceptor Body Armor (the name for the whole system), IOTV – Improved Outer Tactical Vest, ACH – Advanced Combat Helmet. These are all elements of the body armor that I’m issued by the Army, which I’ll have to wear when moving from one base to another. The IOTV itself can stop small arms fire (9mm and fragmentation) and also holds four plates (front, back, two sides) that can stop heavier impacts. All of this protection comes at the price of something like 30-35 extra pounds to carry, but I’m pretty sure it’s worth it.</p>
<p>IRDO – Individual Replacement Deployment Operations.  Contractor “boot camp”, where they make sure we’ve done our online training, check our medical records to make sure we’ve had all our shots, give us some minimal training, issue us our body armor, and send us on our merry way.</p>
<p>IOTV – Improved Outer Tactical Vest. (see IBA)</p>
<p>ISAF – International Security Assistance Force. This is the NATO-led group of armed forces currently in Afghanistan, fighting the remnants of the Taliban, training the Afghan security forces, and generally just enjoying themselves. The soldiers get an ISAF patch on their sleeves when they deploy over here, just in case it was unclear to anyone who’s running things.</p>
<p>LOA – Letter Of Authorization. This is the piece of paper contractors carry that’s basically the equivalent of orders in the military – it states who I am, where I’m supposed to be, and what I’m supposed to be doing there. It has information on my company’s contract, emergency contacts, my equivalent government employee rank, and what privileges I’m allowed (for example, I’m allowed to eat at DFACs and use the gyms).</p>
<p>LNO – LiaisoN Officer. As in, someone who serves as a liaison between two different organizations in the military, which is probably one of the most thankless jobs anyone could ever have around here. And without LNOs, nothing would ever get done around here. I also like the acronym that takes the last letter of a word . . . that’s always fun. This one reminds me of my internship at Boeing, where the word liaison was pronounced LYE-azon. Speaking of weird.</p>
<p>MP – Military Police.  Just like regular police, but on military bases.  They get special patches so you know who they are.</p>
<p>MRAP – Mine Resistant, Ambush Protected.  This is a general term describing the vehicles that the military mostly drives around in these days.  The Humvee is basically nonexistent as a tactical vehicle these days because, as we discovered early on in Iraq, it just isn’t heavily armored enough to make it a safe vehicle for patrolling in when there are big IEDs around.  So instead they use MRAPs, which are big, armored, truck looking things.</p>
<p>NCO – Non-Commissioned Officer.  Ranging from Corporal (CPL) up to Command Sergeant Major (CSM), NCOs are the enlisted soldiers who get things done.  I’m trying to get ranks and insignia in my head a bit so that I can navigate the Army world better, but counting stripes is hard.  And there are a lot of different types of Sergeant.</p>
<p>NSTR – Nothing Significant To Report.  This one’s pretty self-explanatory.</p>
<p>OCONUS – Outside of CONUS. (see CONUS)</p>
<p>RC-S – Regional Command – South. KAF is the headquarters of RC-South, which is one of the major regions that ISAF broke Afghanistan up into for the purposes of command structure. It includes the Zabul, Kandahar, Daykundi, and Uruzgan provinces of Afghanistan.</p>
<p>REF – Rapid Equipping Force.  The REF is the Army organization that I work for. They’re bigger than just the projects we do – they do a bunch of work to take commercial, off-the-shelf technology, modify it, and put it in the hands of soldiers in the field. They differ from most other Army (and government, for that matter) in that they say they’re going to do things rapidly and are often successful at it.</p>
<p>Space-A – Space Available. This is the second way we get around Afghanistan by air, besides an AMR. Space-A means you go to a flight ramp or terminal and put your name on what’s essentially a standby list. If there are seats available on a flight, they’ll take people off the Space-A list to fill them. Sometimes. If they feel like it. It’s all a very opaque process, but the upshot is that usually if you want to go somewhere, you can get there eventually.</p>
<p>TCN – Third Country National. These are contracted personnel in Afghanistan who are working for the US (or NATO or ISAF as the case may be, I suppose) who are neither Afghan locals nor Americans. There are a ton of TCNs from Pakistan and the Phillipines here who work in the DFACs and some of the other service oriented jobs around KAF.</p>
<p>VTC - Video TeleConference.  Basically a video phone.  Yep, we're living in the future here.</p>
