---
categories:
- Travel
date: 2012-09-28 04:12:19
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Back to MSG
type: post
---

I took a trip back out to Masum Ghar yesterday.  Albert is overloaded with
projects at the mobile lab right now while Scott is on R&R, so I came out here
to keep him company.  There are a couple of things going on to make the next
few days extra complicated, but I’m going to wait until they get resolved to
write about them.  Stay tuned for that.

In the meantime, I had a great seat for my helicopter ride out here and I took
some nice photos.  I was on a Chinook again, in the third seat from the rear
ramp on a fairly full flight.

![DSCN0926]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0926.jpg)

I think I wrote about this last time I rode in a Chinook, but a picture’s
worth many words in this case.  So yeah, that’s the tail gunner sitting out
there on the edge of the ramp.  He has a machine gun in front of him between
his legs, and he’s attached to the helicopter by a strap . . . but still,
that’s a gutsy position to be in.  It’s hard to tell from this photo, but the
ramp is declined enough that if he wants to come back inside the helicopter,
he’s going to be walking uphill.  Yeesh.

![DSCN0930]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0930.jpg)

The guy sitting across from me was a dog handler who was flying with a big
German shepherd.  The dog was not phased by flying or the open door – I’m
pretty sure he would have stuck his head out the door if he could.

<iframe class='youtube-player' type='text/html' width='640' height='360' src='https://www.youtube.com/embed/VtZZJYutGqQ?version=3&#038;rel=1&#038;fs=1&#038;autohide=2&#038;showsearch=0&#038;showinfo=1&#038;iv_load_policy=1&#038;hd=1&#038;wmode=transparent' allowfullscreen='true' style='border:0;'></iframe>

I also took two movies during the flight, at the beginning and end, which give
a pretty good idea of what it’s like flying on one of these things – large
scale motion is as smooth as an airplane, but it’s noisy and a there’s a lot
of vibration.  And the open ramp is right over there.  This is my first
attempt at putting videos on the blog – I think if you follow the link to
YouTube you can watch it in higher resolution.