---
categories:
- Travel
- Working
date: 2012-10-27 05:29:19
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: Day Trip to Talukan
type: post
---

I found myself humming the Magnum, P.I. theme song on the way to the DFAC
today.  I’m not sure where it came from, but I think it was subconsciously
because of my day trip to Talukan yesterday.  No, really, there’s a reason
that makes sense . . .

You see, the REF recently got a contract with a company called Bear Defense,
which flies helicopters here in Afghanistan.  These are civilian owned and
operated helicopters, not military ones.  This helps make our lives easier
because we can schedule flights with a (slightly) greater confidence that
scheduled flights will happen, or at least that if there are problems, we’re
more likely to be accommodated.  I have no clue how the REF justifies paying
for flights when Army flights are available to us for “free”, but that’s not
my department.

So anyway, yesterday I flew over to a base (technically a COP, see the AOTD)
called Talukan on a Bear Defense helicopter.  Talukan is a company-sized COP,
which means it’s relatively tiny – probably fewer than 200 soldiers live and
work there, with barely any contractors.  These guys are way out along [the
horn of Panjwai](/2012/08/28/a-very-
different-fob/), so between their distance from KAF and their size, they have
very few flights in and out.  This is another reason that the Bear Defense
flights are nice for us – we can schedule them to out-of-the-way places where
military flights rarely fly.

The reason this brings up Magnum, P.I. (which I haven’t seen in forever, but
is a great show) is that the Bear Defense helicopters are much smaller than
Blackhawks – they look approximately like [this
one](http://www.beardefense.com/Portals/3/Gallery/621/P4250255.jpg) (bonus
points if you can identify the type, I didn’t ask).  That’s not exactly TC’s
model, but pretty close.  It’s a snug five-seater – the cabin is similar in
size to the inside of a Honda Civic.

Great 80’s TV shows aside, this was a pretty fun helicopter to ride in.  For
the flight out, I got to ride in the front seat (left side), since there were
no controls there.  The view was awesome.

<iframe class='youtube-player' type='text/html' width='448' height='252' src='https://www.youtube.com/embed/2xY3u4dKrYI?version=3&#038;rel=1&#038;fs=1&#038;autohide=2&#038;showsearch=0&#038;showinfo=1&#038;iv_load_policy=1&#038;hd=1&#038;wmode=transparent' allowfullscreen='true' style='border:0;'></iframe>

As we came down into Panjwai, we flew right past Masum Ghar, which I hadn’t
really gotten to see from the air on my previous flights there.

![DSCN1060]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn1060.jpg)

![DSCN1062]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn1062.jpg)

![DSCN1061]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn1061.jpg)

That’s FOB Masum Ghar nestled into the mountainside, across the street from a
decent-sized city.

On the way home, I had to sit in the back because the passenger seat had a
control stick.  Apparently my helicopter frequent flyer miles don’t give me
pilot privileges.  That’s probably the platinum tier.  All in all, it was a
good trip out to Talukan.  Aside from the flights, the project work was good
and I met a couple of interesting soldiers.  I’ll try to post about the main
project out there soon because it’s an interesting example of the kind of
thing we do and there isn’t anything particularly sensitive about it.  My
countdown is under two weeks to go, now, so I’m going to try to be better
about posting before I go home.  We’ll see how that goes.

AOTD: COP – Combat OutPost.  A COP is the next-sized down base from a FOB –
somewhere in the 100-500 soldier range.  Despite the “combat” part of the
name, most COPs in Afghanistan are very well established bases that have been
in place and heavily fortified for long enough that they never come under
attack anymore.