---
categories:
- Predeployment
date: 2012-04-21 17:11:00
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: Training Week
type: post
---

As part of my predeployment activities, I spent an educational and
entertaining week at our Phoenix office.  We spent a day going through the
machine shop and over mechanical engineering skills that I’m dusting off after
6 years of computational PhD work (mills, lathes, and CNC machines).  Then we
practiced some (new to me) things like MIG welding and plasma cutting.

![ExpoTraining-6]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/expotraining-61.jpg)

Running the mill – yeah, I used to know how to do this.

We also spent a day at the shooting range (note: in AZ, the shooting range is
just somewhere you pull off the road, head a couple hundred yards into the
desert, and set up your targets).  Point of emphasis for my family (and
everyone, really): I will not be carrying a weapon nor do I expect to ever
pick up or use a weapon while in theater.  Our day of shooting was still
extremely useful for three reasons, though: 1) it made me more comfortable
around guns, of which I’ll be seeing a lot in Afghanistan, 2) it helped build
some confidence that if the worst happens and I need to use a weapon, I’ll
know how to load, unsafety, and fire it in the right direction, and 3) it was
a great team building exercise (yes, it was a lot of fun).

![ExpoTraining-91]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/expotraining-911.jpg)
![ExpoTraining-120]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/expotraining-1201.jpg)

Team-building fun in the desert.

Our last bit of training was putting together a surveillance system to keep
watch over our Phoenix office.

![IMG-20120420-00034]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img-20120420-00034.jpg)

Albert and Jon working hard under the clear Arizona sky.  At least one of them
is.

AOTD: AKO – Army Knowledge Online.  This, like many military terms, seems to
be an oxymoron since I have yet to find any helpful knowledge on AKO.  It is,
however, the authorization system through which I can receive my extremely
useful predeployment online training (more about this in a later post).  None
of which is actually located inside the AKO system.