---
categories:
- Predeployment
date: 2012-05-27 23:56:27
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: "And . . . I\u2019m off!"
type: post
---

I left from home this morning for the first leg of the grand, globe-trotting
adventure . . . to Indiana!  Actually, it was kind of cool flying into
Indianapolis – we could actually see the Indy 500 going on as we made our
approach.  It was approximately as interesting watching the cars going around
from 10 miles away as I imagine it would be to watch in person or on TV.  No,
probably more interesting.

This morning was pretty rough – first, I had to get up at 0330 (no, I’m not in
the military, yes I’m going to use military time because it’s easier if I
embrace the little idiosyncrasies of this world I’m headed to), which is never
good.  Saying bye to Lena for 2.5 months or so was also not fun – this will be
our longest time apart since . . . we met?  Wow, I think that’s true.
Fortunately she’s got some good friends taking care of her today.

So yeah, I arrived at IRDO Camp Atterbury, found my way to the IRDO building,
and was immediately impressed by the number of couches inside.  Then I
realized that I would probably be sitting on those couches a lot this week,
taking part in the most important activity at IRDO – waiting.  I eventually
found a SGT who was able to tell me that I was on the Green Team, though she
couldn’t tell me what that meant (who was our NCO in charge, where we were
supposed to report tomorrow, what time we were supposed to report tomorrow . .
. the little things).  Eventually a SSG showed up who was able to tell me
those things, and more (where to park)!  IRDO is totally awesome!

AOTD: NCO – Non-Commissioned Officer.  Ranging from Corporal (CPL) up to
Command Sergeant Major (CSM), NCOs are the enlisted soldiers who get things
done.  I’m trying to get ranks and insignia in my head a bit so that I can
navigate the Army world better, but counting stripes is hard.  And there are a
lot of different types of Sergeant.