---
categories:
- Travel
date: 2012-06-05 11:59:02
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: 'IND-IAD-DXB-KAF: My outbound trip to Afghanistan'
type: post
---

After the false start on Friday, I finally got out of Indiana on Saturday.  It
was a total zoo at Washington Dulles (IAD) on Saturday after all of the
weather delays and cancelations there on Friday.  My flight out to Dubai was
oversold by 20 or 30 seats and there were lots of unhappy people at the gate.
Luckily, I had a confirmed seat.

I had also paid for a mileage upgrade to business class, figuring that it was
totally worth it for a 14 hour flight.  With all the overbooking
ridiculousness, I wasn’t too hopeful, but during boarding, the upgrade board
finally changed to this:

![IMG-20120602-00044]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img-20120602-00044.jpg)

Number 1 on the business class upgrade list!

And I stayed at number 1 all through the boarding process.  So I boarded with
my group and got all settled in my seat (33B, an aisle seat in 2-5-2 seating),
at which point the flight attendant came and found me and handed me my upgrade
boarding pass.  Woohoo, business class!  I was in the middle seat (2-3-2
configuration) and it wasn’t the new lie-flat seating, but it was definitely
the best seat I’ve ever had for such a long flight.  So worth it.

We arrived in Dubai around 4 PM local time on Sunday.  I stayed Sunday night
in a hotel inside airport security so that I didn’t need to clear customs, but
that meant I couldn’t access my checked baggage.  I had to pay to get it
transferred over to my flight the next day from a different terminal and hope
that it would actually get to Kandahar with me.  All of this is necessary
because you’re not allowed to bring body armor into the UAE.  Luckily, the
inside-the-airport hotel was pretty nice, and there were lots of restaurants
around the terminal.  I ate at The Irish Pub, which was pretty incongruous
with its surroundings and full of contractors enjoying either their last beer
before their deployment or their first beer on their way home.  Instead of a
bible, my hotel room came with a prayer rug and a helpful arrow on the
nightstand:

![DSCN0088]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0088.jpg)

I assume this means pray facing that direction.  Definitely not in Kansas
anymore.

It was really humid in Dubai and pretty foggy, so I basically couldn’t see any
of the skyline or any of the manmade island resorts while I was there or on
the flights in and out.  Maybe next time.

My flight out from Dubai to Kandahar was with a commercial company called DFS.
The aircraft we were on was a Fly Dubai 737 with one of the nicer interiors
I’ve seen – big touchscreen seatback entertainment systems with lots of
American movies and TV shows.  We made a stop at Camp Bastion on the way over
to Kandahar Air Field.  It was pretty much a typical commercial flight,
complete with safety briefing and beverage service.  The only difference was
when we landed in Afghanistan, we came down what felt like faster than normal
and landed pretty hard.  That, and the airfield was full of military
helicopters and planes.

That’s about it for my trip over here – pretty uneventful and easy.  I’m
getting acclimated to the time difference (11.5 hours earlier than Pacific
time) still, but overall feel pretty good.