---
categories:
- Living
- Working
date: 2012-09-20 05:07:23
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: Personnel Changes
type: post
---

Seven weeks to go here, and it’s going to get complicated.  Skip, who’s the
lead engineer in the KAF lab, is heading home at the beginning of October.
I’ll be taking over as lead engineer until I leave in November.  Dan, an
electrical engineer technician from our Phoenix office, will be coming in to
replace Skip as soon as they can get his paperwork in order.  And Charlie will
be coming to replace me sometime around the end of October.  So between trying
to finish up projects and get the new guys oriented, that should keep me busy.

I realized today that I don’t think I’ve mentioned it here before, but Owen is
here on KAF with me.  Most of you have met Owen, my friend who I’ve known
since second grade and who served as a groomsman at my wedding.  Until I got
to KAF in June, this was the last time I saw him:

![Owen_wedding_crop]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/owen_wedding_crop.jpg)

In a ridiculous coincidence, Owen was commanding a company based here on KAF.
We actually did a couple of projects to help his guys out.  Here I am getting
the firsthand experience of how uncomfortable it is to ride in an MRAP while
Owen explains:

![DSCN0704]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0704.jpg)

He also had me put on his gear (armor and belt) so I could get the full
experience.  I’m not a huge person, but even I was crammed in to the seat
while wearing armor.  I’m guessing whoever designed the interior of these
vehicles didn’t try them out with full kit.

![DSCN0714]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0714.jpg)

Anyway, it was nice having Owen around this summer – in addition to helping
his guys with some stuff, we met up for gym workouts every week or so and had
pizza at the Boardwalk a couple of times.  Always a welcome break from the
routine around here.

So I bring this up because Owen is actually leaving this week to head up to a
different FOB in the north (Mazar-i-Sharif), where he’s taking command of a
different company.  This is a good thing for him, since the new unit he’s
joining is heading home in under a month.  Hopefully the next time I see him
will be back in the US.

AOTD: COMKAF – COMmander of Kandahar AirField.  COMKAF in most cases refers to
the building where the base is commanded from, which happens to be right next
door to our lab.  The building has an interesting history; it’s (officially?)
referred to as TLS – Taliban’s Last Stand.  It’s the building where the last
of the Taliban command structure holed up when we came in back in 2001.  The
hole in the ceiling where the JDAM (Joint Direct Attack Munition – a big,
precision-guided bomb) came in is somewhat preserved.