---
categories:
- Quick update
- Working
date: 2012-10-07 01:58:11
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: 'Quick Update: A Briefing'
type: post
---

Yesterday, I had the exciting task of briefing the “U.S. Senior Synch” meeting
about the REF Forward Lab (i.e., what my job is out here).  The Senior Synch
meeting appears to be a weekly meeting of the top U.S. officers here on KAF,
which means three Brigadier (one-star) Generals and the most Colonels I’ve
ever seen in one place (maybe 15).  It was interesting.  The soldiers were all
pretty deferential to the generals, but there wasn’t much in the way of
formality (no saluting or anything).  They started out with a quick run-
through of weekly items of interest in the area, then it was my turn.

I had about 20 slides to get through, and I was moving right along through
slide 5, when I got the only question of the whole briefing.  The general who
I gather is in charge of logistics or something asked, basically, “wait . . .
who are you, who do you work for, and what is REF?”  Yeah, so, that was
something that our LNO was supposed to cover at some point for these people,
or at least he’d assured me that they knew what REF was in general.  So then
our LNO and the Major who’s the officer in charge here at REF KAF spent about
10 minutes trying to explain all that.  When the general was finally satisfied
somewhat, I managed to get through the rest of the briefing.  I think the main
question on everyone’s minds, which nicely enough they didn’t ask, was “why
are we hearing about all this at this meeting?”  Personally, I sort of had the
same question.

On the plus side, one of the Lt. Colonels who was sitting on the side of the
room asked me some questions after the meeting was over and took my card.  It
looks like we’ll be able to help him out with a project.  The other positive
was that this was the first presentation I’ve given in this job and I
personally thought I gave a pretty darn good talk.  Briefing.  Whatever.
Hopefully I’ll get to reuse the slides sometime for an audience that is a
little more interested.

AOTD: RC-S – Regional Command – South.  KAF is the headquarters of RC-South,
which is one of the major regions that ISAF broke Afghanistan up into for the
purposes of command structure.  It includes the Zabul, Kandahar, Daykundi, and
Uruzgan provinces of Afghanistan.