---
categories:
- Living
date: 2012-06-07 19:37:30
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: First week
type: post
---

I’ve only been here for 3.5 days, but I’d say I’m starting to settle in.  At
least, I’m settling in to the point where it feels like I’ve been here a lot
longer than 3.5 days.  I can somewhat navigate around our part of the base
(KAF is really huge) – I know where the nearest DFAC is, where the showers are
(more on this below), and I could probably find a gym or two.

The building I’m living in is right by the passenger terminal from the
airfield so we hear a lot of planes taking off.  I had been worried that the
fighters taking off (F-16s or Eurofighters every hour or two) would be loud,
but fortunately they’re not loud enough to wake me up at night.  The building
has nice thick concrete walls, which helps with noise and heat.  If there were
any rocket attacks, it would also help with that, but those are extremely rare
these days.

The building I’m living in is conveniently also the building our lab is in –
in fact, the two rooms are right next to each other.  The problem with our lab
housing is that there’s no running water.  Technically, we have housing in
barracks all the way across the base, and that’s where our showers are.  It’s
kind of a pain to have to drive 15 minutes (or walk 25 minutes) to take a
shower, so I’m considering moving over to our other housing at some point.
We’ll see.

For now, I’m sharing the bedroom with a coworker.  We’ve got two bunk beds in
the bedroom, so it feels kind of like college, except not quite as nice.

![DSCN0090]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0090.jpg)

That’s my bed on the bottom left.

In the other room we have desks for our computers and phones and lab benches
for working.  Everything is air-conditioned (pretty necessary when it’s 100 F
out every day), we have a mini-fridge, coffee pot, and microwave, and the
portapotties are conveniently located.  One of the nice features is a flat
roof that we can climb up on to watch the flight line in the evening.  F-16s
taking off on full afterburner are awesome.

AOTD: DFAC – Dining Facility.  Also known as a mess hall.  The food is ok, not
great, and available in vast quantities.  I’ll probably have more to say about
DFAC food in the future (maybe some photos?), but now you know what a DFAC is
at least.