---
categories:
- Quick update
date: 2012-07-10 09:00:01
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
title: 'Quick Update: Really short trip'
type: post
---

I was all excited yesterday that I might get to fly on a helicopter for the
first time.  I was going to play courier and bring some supplies out to the
guys at our mobile lab, currently located on a FOB about 30 miles outside of
Kandahar.  The plan was to spend the night and come back the next morning.

I got on Space-A in the morning (see the AOTD) and spent the early afternoon
figuring out what I needed to bring with me – when you travel out here, it’s
always a good idea to bring at least 3 days worth of clothes, plus a sleeping
bag and shower stuff.  And of course, your body armor and helmet, and in my
case my 15 pound “laptop”.  So even an overnight trip requires 60+ pounds of
gear.

I showed up at the terminal at my show time and sat around reading for almost
an hour until they called us up to get ready.  Everyone got geared up and
ready to go – body armor and helmet on (required for riding in helicopters),
backpacks and bags strapped on, eye protection and ear protection ready.  They
led us all out to the tarmac, where one Blackhawk was already on the ground
and another one was coming in to land.

Both helicopters were empty, so it was looking good for all of us to get on
them.  The ground crew loaded one guy on the first one.  And then, after a
long discussion with the flight crew, they told the rest of us (15 people or
so) to head back to the terminal, we weren’t flying.

So that was the extent of my trip – I got to walk out on the tarmac and get
within 50 feet of a helicopter.  We’re not really sure what happened, but for
some reason those two went out basically empty.  A sense of logic is not
always obvious around Afghanistan, it turns out.

![DSCN0115]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0115.jpg)

These are not the Blackhawks that I didn’t get on yesterday, but they are some
others that I also didn’t get on.

AOTD: Space-A – Space Available.  This is the second way we get around
Afghanistan by air, besides an AMR.  Space-A means you go to a flight ramp or
terminal and put your name on what’s essentially a standby list.  If there are
seats available on a flight, they’ll take people off the Space-A list to fill
them.  Sometimes.  If they feel like it.  It’s all a very opaque process, but
the upshot is that usually if you want to go somewhere, you can get there
eventually.