---
categories:
- R&amp;R
date: 2012-08-18 05:51:52
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Iceland, Part 2
type: post
---

For part 2, I’m going photo-blog style.  Because I’m lazy.

**8/3 – Driving from Reykjavik to Stykkisholmur**

![DSCN0570]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0570.jpg)

Volcano cone along the road north from Reykjavik.  It looks like the kind of
thing that would be cool/easy to walk up to, but it turns out that because of
the lava field between the road and the cone itself, it’s a 3-hour round trip
hike.  Disappointingly, we didn’t have time.  Don’t worry, we saw more of
these later.

![DSCN0591]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0591.jpg)

We did stop to explore some amazing exposed basalt columns.

![DSCN0573]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0573.jpg)

Once again, I wish I knew more about geology, so I could tell you why they
look like this.  Geologists get really excited about Iceland.

![DSCN0595]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0595.jpg)

Our rental car was a Golf Polo with a 1.0 L engine.  It wasn’t quite my car,
but it was close enough to have a little fun.  Certainly better than the
trucks I’ve been driving at KAF.  Also, the fuel economy was nice since gas
was $10/gallon.

![DSCN0598]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0598.jpg)

The bustling metropolis (tiny fishing town: population 1100, which makes it
big for Iceland) where we spent two nights.  That crazy looking building on
the hill is a church.

![DSCN0601]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0601.jpg)

Our driving snacks: chocolate covered raisins (yum), and a traditional dried
fish snack recommended by my guide book (not as yum).  Apparently the
bitafiskur is better if you dip it in butter.  Who knew.

**8/4 – Exploring the Snaefellsnes peninsula**

**![DSCN0629]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0629.jpg)**

The main attraction of the Snaefellsnes peninsula is Snaefellsnesjokull
National Park, named after the big glacier-covered mountain pictured here.
Unfortunately, this was our best view of it.  I’ll take this opportunity to
comment on the Icelandic language: it’s a little tough.  But some things make
sense.  For example, Snae means snow, fells means mountain, nes means
peninsula (I think), and jokull means glacier.  So if you see a word that
includes one of these roots, you know what it’s talking about.  This here is a
snowy mountain, on a peninsula, with a big glacier on top.  Allegedly.

![DSCN0613]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0613.jpg)

Despite the clouds, we still found fun things to do.  Lena’s guide book
pointed us toward this box canyon that we were able to scramble up a little
ways.

![DSCN0622]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0622.jpg) ![IMG_0160]({{
site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0160.jpg)

Lunch at a tiny little cafe next to the ocean and a lava field.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0164.jpg)

Crazy lava rock formations near the ocean.

![DSCN0635]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0635.jpg)

Lava plus ocean equals interesting rocks.

![IMG_0167]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0167.jpg)

We may have taken some of these rocks home with us.

![IMG_0174]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0174.jpg)

Another volcano cone – this one was much easier to climb, so we did.

![IMG_0172]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0172.jpg)

Inside the volcano crater.  I was hoping for something more exciting than a
gently sloping hole filled with grass.  Maybe next time.

![DSCN0648]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0648.jpg)

After dinner, our hotel hostess invited us to enjoy a concert outside
performed by some local musicians who covered a (very wide) variety of
American and Icelandic music (maybe some French, too?).  The red building is
our hotel, the crowd is pretty much everyone who lives in the town.  We hung
out on the lawn until the sun finally went down behind a hill, then went
closer to enjoy the rest of the music.

Don’t hold your breath for part 3 – I’m probably traveling off of KAF this
weekend (finally!!!), so my schedule might get a little crazy.  Or I may end
up with lots of free time to spend on my next post.  We’ll see.