---
categories:
- Predeployment
date: 2012-05-11 21:03:00
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
- rant
title: Online Training
type: post
---

So I’m going to try not to complain too much on this blog, but I’ve just got
to rant a little bit here about my trials and tribulations with my
predeployment online training.

There are a bunch of DoD specified trainings that I’m supposed to complete
before I go to IRDO.  Somewhere in the world, there is a list of the ones that
are required of me.  This list is not available to me, however.  It’s ok,
though, because most of the trainings are inaccessible anyway – when I click
on what is supposed to be the web link to them, I get an error (dead link,
unauthorized access, etc.).  Still, completing just the ones I could access
burned through a ridiculous amount of my time over the past week.

You might think these trainings would be useful.  If so, you’ve clearly never
experienced an online training program.  For example, in one of my trainings,
I “learned” how to snare, skin, and cook a rabbit.  First of all, in my
opinion, this is not something you can actually learn online.  There’s
something to be said for real life experiences.  Second of all, is this
something I need to know how to do?  Do they even have rabbits in Afghanistan?

The Army driving training was one of my favorites.  It featured videos of
“Sergeant Safe” lecturing soldiers (and their wives) about driving safely,
wearing seatbelts, and never riding motorcycles.  Or something.  Because
that’s another thing that I’m definitely going to be doing a lot of in
Afghanistan.

I guess it could be worse.  They could have made me actually snare, skin, and
cook a rabbit.

AOTD: DoD – Department of Defense.  Ok, that was an easy one, you probably
already knew it.