---
categories:
- R&amp;R
date: 2012-08-26 03:32:21
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Iceland, Part 4
type: post
---

**8/7 – South Coast of Iceland**

We started this day by being lazy and sleeping in, so we were just about the
last car to leave the hotel parking lot for the day.  We headed back west
along the south coast, stopping in the town of Vik (a nice, short, easy to
pronounce name) for lunch and to see their overpriced, tourist trap wool gift
shop.  We bought postcards there.  After that, we attempted to go see a rock
arch along the shore, but the road to the viewpoint was closed for
construction.  Instead, we headed out along a different road, and found a big
cliff full of puffins.

![IMG_0223]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0223.jpg)

![DSCN0711]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0711.jpg)

These puffins were very photogenic little birds.

![IMG_0231]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0231.jpg)

That point out there is the rock arch, which we couldn’t see through because
the main viewpoint for it was closed.

Our destination (and hotel location) for the next two days was Skogar, a
“town” with a population of 25ish.  It mostly consisted of two hotels, a
hostel, and a campground located right in front of a pretty nice 60 meter
waterfall, Skogafoss.

![DSCN0712]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0712.jpg)

We stayed at a cute little hotel where I (apparently) booked us the nicest
room.  It also had a hot tub out back that filled from a natural hot spring.
The thermometer was “missing”, and the hotel lady who filled it for us told us
it might be a little hot . . . yeah, even Lena couldn’t get in, it was too
hot.  So while we were waiting for it to cool down to a less scalding
temperature, I took some photos of the view from our room.  After an hour or
two, we were finally able to soak out some of our muscle soreness from the
previous day’s hike.

![DSCN0715]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0715.jpg)

View from our room.  You can barely make out the waterfall (middle right) with
the neighborhood glacier back behind it in the hills.

**8/8 – Skogar**

Like I said above, Skogar is a pretty small town.  By the end of our two week
vacation, though, we were ready to just relax a little bit and not rush all
over the country to see stuff, so it was about the speed we were looking for.
Also, our last couple of days in Iceland, starting this day, were rainy off
and on, which encouraged sleeping in and general laziness.  So on this day, we
took a little hike (not as epic as the one in the national park) up the trail
next to the waterfall and along the river above it, the Skoga.  This trail
continues up over the mountains, all the way to a classic Icelandic
destination in the interior called Thorsmork.  The first part of the trail
follows the river, which cascades over numerous smaller falls on its way to
Skogafoss.  We went maybe 2 miles up the trail and counted 6 or 7 decent size
waterfalls.

![DSCN0731]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0731.jpg)

Those hikers are probably all headed to Thorsmork.

![DSCN0732]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0732.jpg)

Photo op in between rain showers along the river.

After we got our exercise for the day, we went down past the falls again and
got ourselves hotdogs for lunch (aside: Icelanders apparently have loved hot
dogs ever since Americans introduced them after WWII and you can find hot dog
stands everywhere.  You’re supposed to order them “with everything” which in
Iceland includes ketchup, mayo, mustard, raw onions, and fried onions).  We
spent the afternoon watching the Olympics and writing postcards, then had an
adventurous dinner at a restaurant called Old Cowhouse, which was literally in
an old cow house.  Fittingly, I had a steak and it was delicious.

**8/9 – Last full day in Iceland**

We woke up to another rainy day for our last day of vacation and headed west
again toward Keflavik, where we were staying the last night so that I could
catch an early flight the next day.  Our first stop was yet another waterfall.
This one was unique, though – there was a trail that went all the way around
behind it.  Seemed like a good idea, so we grabbed our raincoats and went.

![DSCN0735]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0735.jpg)

It was raining outside, so we figured we couldn’t get much wetter going behind
the waterfall.

![DSCN0742]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0742.jpg)

You don’t get this view of every foss out there.  No pot of gold behind this
waterfall (that’s a thing, right?).

After we got soaked at the waterfall, we mailed our postcards and found a
restaurant with “world famous” (according to my guidebook) lobster bisque for
lunch.  The pickings for sight-seeing between there and Keflavik were somewhat
slim – we drove through many miles of desolate lava fields before Lena finally
directed us toward a geothermal area.  Or, what I referred to as “lots of
smelly, hot water”.

![IMG_0251]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0251.jpg)

I’m enjoying the smelly, hot water.

The last spot on the map before returning to civilization was something called
the “Bridge Between Continents”.  This sounded so awesome that of course we
had to stop.  It was about as awesome as we expected.

![IMG_0253]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img_0253.jpg)

This photo is taken from North America.  That’s Europe over there on the other
side of the bridge.  Really.

![DSCN0749]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0749.jpg)

After that, it was on to Keflavik.  We found our hotel there, then walked
around the harbor until dinner time.  They had some interesting sculptures and
one weird attraction – a giantess’ house (unfortunately, it wasn’t open, so we
didn’t find out what was inside it).

![DSCN0753]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0753.jpg)

Lena doing her best troll impression by the trolls along the harbor in
Keflavik.

We had dinner by the harbor – one last chance at fresh fish for me.  We also
got ourselves soft serve ice cream from a fast food place on the way back to
our hotel.  When the guy asked us if we wanted it dipped, we thought about it
briefly and both said “sure!”  I would have taken photos, but we both had to
concentrate on making the ice cream disappear before things got messy.  Which
we did with no problem.

**8/10-8/11 – Back to KAF**

That was about it for the fun in Iceland.  My flight left pretty early, before
Lena’s was even checking in, so we said a very tough goodbye at the last
possible minute and I headed through security.  I flew IcelandAir to
Manchester, England, then Qatar Airways back to Doha and on to Dubai.  My
flights and layovers were unfortunately spaced such that during the time
(either local or subjectively) when I should have been sleeping, I was either
getting off a plane, having a shortish layover, or getting on a plane again.
So I watched a bunch of movies (all starring Robert Downey, Jr., oddly enough)
and didn’t sleep more than an hour or so.  By the time I got back to KAF, I
was pretty out of it.  On the plus side, I was so tired that falling asleep
wasn’t a problem and a nice 12 hours of sleep took care of my jet lag.

Well, that about covers my R&R trip.  I think it was a perfect vacation for a
break from Afghanistan – the weather was the opposite of what I’d been dealing
with for two months, the food was great, the people were friendly, and it was
just the kind of place Lena and I like exploring.  Two weeks was a nice amount
of time to get a good sense of the country without getting bored and we
covered a lot of ground without too much driving.  Best of all, we got to
spend our first anniversary together.

The next two plus months are going to be tough – it’s a longer stretch than
the first part of my deployment and I know what to expect now.  On the other
hand, I do feel somewhat lucky that I got a break from this at all.  Most of
the people working over here (soldiers and contractors alike) only get one R&R
every 12 months.  So far, I’m doing the best I can to enjoy the experience,
keep busy with the fulfilling work, and make do with my daily video chats with
Lena.  But I can’t help wishing once in a while that I was back in Iceland . .
.

One last note: Lena is still working on compiling the photo album of best
shots from Iceland.  She’ll probably get it done this weekend and I’ll post it
when she does.  Sorry that’s not done yet . . . but we’ve both been busy.
Coming soon, though.  Otherwise, it’s back to regularly scheduled programming
about life in Afghanistan.  I have some very interesting material to share
about my temporary new FOB here.