---
categories:
- Predeployment
date: 2012-05-31 03:16:37
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- AOTD
- food
title: IRDO, part I
type: post
---

My predeployment, contractor “boot camp” experience, also known as
[IRDO](/2012/04/10/first-things-first/),
hasn’t had too many noteworthy moments.  Which is good, really.  Most of it
has been getting up early, standing in line waiting for someone to look at my
paperwork and sign/stamp/check off my forms.  We had a semi-interesting
briefing (milspeak for powerpoint presentation) about legal issues during
deployment.  Other than that, it’s been boring but smooth sailing.

For lunch, they’re feeding us a sort of strange MRE-ish prepackaged meal (it
probably has a name, but I haven’t caught it yet) with a “choice” of options.

![DSCN0074]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0074.jpg)

Mmm, delicious lunch choices.  Turkey spread and chicken spread are much worse
than they sound.

I managed to get the Tuna one both days I got one of these, and it actually
wasn’t that bad.  There’s only one thing I couldn’t bring myself to eat, see
if you can spot it:

![DSCN0075]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0075.jpg)

Not so bad.  Except for one really odd included item, considering we have no
way of heating things up.

Today we were issued our body armor (also helmet, gas mask, and useless little
first aid pouch that might be able to hold about 3 bandaids).  You’ll probably
be seeing this more in photos since many of the great photo ops over there
will undoubtedly be while wearing it.  But I think it’s kind of cool, so
here’s the first photo of it, without me inside.

![DSCN0078]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0078.jpg)

AOTD (three for you today, actually): IBA – Interceptor Body Armor (the name
for the whole system),  IOTV – Improved Outer Tactical Vest, ACH – Advanced
Combat Helmet.  These are all elements of the body armor that I’m issued by
the Army, which I’ll have to wear when moving from one base to another.  The
IOTV itself can stop small arms fire (9mm and fragmentation) and also holds
four plates (front, back, two sides) that can stop heavier impacts.  All of
this protection comes at the price of something like 30-35 extra pounds to
carry, but I’m pretty sure it’s worth it.