---
categories:
- Living
date: 2012-09-26 02:49:30
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Getting out the vote
type: post
---

About a month ago, I realized I’d better figure out how to vote over here,
because I’m not going to get back home until after election day (the Friday of
that week, actually, if all goes according to plan).  It turns out this isn’t
as easy as you might think.  Really, it’s not as easy as it should be – it’s
sort of shocking that a lot of soldiers and contractors deployed over here
feel pretty disenfranchised.  Comments I’ve heard range from hopeful (“Don’t
forget to register for your absentee/overseas ballot, the suggested deadline
is really soon”) to cynical (“Absentee ballots all get thrown out”) to
slightly ridiculous (“I’m taking my R&R over election day because I want my
vote to be counted”).

As an already registered California voter, the process wasn’t too terrible for
me.  I started out at [www.fvap.gov](http://www.fvap.gov), which provides
decently well organized help with registering to vote and getting a ballot for
U.S. citizens who are overseas during the election.  It led me through the
process to request an overseas ballot (which varies by state and by county, at
least in California).  I printed out the form and mailed it in about three
weeks ago.  On the form, I chose to get my ballot emailed to me (could also
have been mailed or faxed), which seemed like a good idea so that I might
actually get it in time.

Amazingly, my ballot was in my inbox this morning (amazing because the last
two times I tried to register to vote in California, they misspelled my name
and then got my address wrong when I tried to fix my name . . .).  So it looks
like I’ll actually get to vote this year (you know, assuming all the absentee
ballots don’t get thrown out).

For all you California voters, if you want some good guidance on what the heck
all the ballot measures and propositions mean, I highly recommend
[SmartVoter](http://www.smartvoter.org/2012/11/06/ca/) and the League of Women
Voters of California [ballot measure information page](http://cavotes.org/vote
/ballot-measures).  I ran across them today while I was spending an hour
trying to figure out the answers.

In case you’ve never voted in California, we have this fun process by which
seemingly random propositions can be added to our ballots by petition.  My
sense is that the threshold for inclusion on the ballot is a little on the low
side because it seems like every single election we get to vote on 10-20
questions that are often pretty difficult to decipher.  It’s kind of like a
hard multiple choice test.  In the official voter guide, supporters and
opponents for each proposition get space to argue their position.  These are
usually totally worthless but sometimes entertaining, with interesting use of
capital letters and punctuation.  This year, one of the official signers to
the opposition to one of the measures was named “Starchild”
([here](http://cavotes.org/sites/default/files/jobs/35-arg-rebuttals.pdf),
bottom of first page.  It’s not really a funny law, since it’s about human
trafficking, but seriously, Starchild?  Really?).  The last proposition, 40,
has no argument against it – apparently the proposition was rendered moot by a
State Supreme Court decision, but it had to stay on the ballot and needs to be
passed or else something bad happens, I think.  Like maybe Sacramento falls
into the ocean.  Yep, California state government is awesome – if only Arnold
was still our governor, I’m sure all our problems would go away.

Anyway, after getting through all that, I’m ready to mail my ballot in
tomorrow, which should get it back to the states in plenty of time.

![DSCN0925]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0925.jpg)

You may be wondering why my envelope says “FREE” where the postage usually
goes.  That’s because postcards and first-class letters are free to mail
through the USPS from combat zones.  Yep, we may have to deal with DFAC food,
the poo pond, and dust getting everywhere, but at least we can send mail for
free.