---
categories:
- R&amp;R
date: 2012-08-16 02:17:53
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Iceland, Part 1
type: post
---

It’s been a busy week back at KAF, but I’m trying to get my R&R posts up
before I forget what I did.  Luckily, Lena and I took about 500 photos between
us over the two weeks so there’s lots of photo evidence to remind me.  Without
further ado, part 1 of . . . I don’t know, two or three posts about R&R,
probably.  At the end of the series I’ll put up a link to our Picasa album
from the trip (Lena is compiling it, hopefully) in case you didn’t get enough
photos.

**7/28-7/29 – Outbound trip**

The outbound trip from KAF was fairly uneventful, but still not that much fun.
I flew from KAF to Dubai, where I had my first beer (Guinness, shown below)
and decent burger in two months.  After a six hour layover, it was on to Doha
(capital of Qatar), a 2 hour layover, and then Frankfurt.  When I arrived in
Germany, I was pretty brain-dead, having slept two hours or so on the flight.
I was awake enough to notice a certain airplane at a gate outside, though.

![DSCN0413]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0413.jpg) ![DSCN0414]({{
site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0414.jpg)

After some confusion, I found where I could take a shower in the terminal (it
was like 8 euros, I think, but totally worth it).  Then I bought a sandwich
and tipped the guy 4 or 5 euros because I forgot that in Europe, coins are
sometimes worth a lot.  Oops.  My layover in Frankfurt was seven hours, so I
camped out near the IcelandAir check-in desk and sort of napped.  Another
flight (that’s number four) finally took me to Reykjavik, where I arrived on
schedule after approximately 728 hours of travel time.  A bus took me to the
hotel near downtown, where Lena was already in our room . . . yay for finding
Lena in a strange foreign country!  And then I slept for probably 14 hours.

**7/30 – Exploring Reykjavik on foot**

Our first day in Reykjavik, we decided to take it easy.  So after breakfast,
we walked a mile and a half to the downtown area, then spent the rest of the
day walking all over the place.  Probably five miles total round trip.  We
found the Parliament building (below, left, and let’s just say Iceland doesn’t
seem to worry about governmental security very much) and lots of interesting
buildings.  We also hiked up a small hill to the Saga Museum (below, right),
which we did not go into because the best part were the views from the roof,
which was not part of the museum.  Most places would charge you to get in to
see views like that . . . but we’re not complaining.  Iceland is cool like
that.

![DSCN0421]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0421.jpg) ![DSCN0424]({{
site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0424.jpg)

Did I mention that our hotel had amazing views over the bay to the north of
the city?  The view from our windows is below – the “daytime” shot is at 1930,
the sunset shot is at 2330.  Being that far north in late July/early August
was interesting – the days were really long and it never got dark, but sunset
also went from 2330 to 2245 during the two weeks we were there.  That’s a
pretty quick decrease in length of day.

![DSCN0432]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0432.jpg) ![DSCN0435]({{
site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0435.jpg)

**7/31 – Whale-watching, part 1, Happy Anniversary!**

On our first anniversary (side note: I can’t believe we got married a whole
year ago), we decided to go for a whale watch in the afternoon.  The extremely
stylish clothing Lena is wearing in the first photo was on offer from the
whale watch company for anyone who didn’t have warm enough clothes (yes,
that’s an overall although you can’t see the pants).  She was much warmer than
I was, but I refused to give in to the red suit thing.  Better to be cold than
to look silly, obviously.  Besides, I wasn’t _that_ cold.

![DSCN0464]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0464.jpg)  ![DSCN0477]({{
site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0477.jpg)

After the whale watch, we walked through this building with ridiculous
architecture called Harpa, the concert hall and conference center in downtown
Reykjavik.  The whole outside is covered with irregular glass boxes, and the
inside is full of odd geometric shapes everywhere.  It’s pretty awesome.

![DSCN0476]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0476.jpg) ![DSCN0490]({{
site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0490.jpg)

That last photo is Lena all dressed up, taking in the sunset from our room
after our nice anniversary dinner in the hotel restaurant (a bit fancy for our
liking, but interesting flavors and good fresh fish, like everywhere in
Iceland).

**8/1 – The Golden Circle**

The Golden Circle is this idea someone at a tour bus company came up with for
the perfect daytrip from Reykjavik – a big waterfall, the original geyser, and
a national park that doubles as the birthplace of government in Iceland – and
back in time for dinner reservations.  We did it on our own, backwards, and I
was so unimpressed at the waterfall (called Gullfoss) that I’m not going to
show it to you.  After lunch at Gullfoss, we headed over to the geothermally
active area that includes Geysir, the original geyser after which all the
others are named.  I’m standing in front of it below, left – it’s not a very
regular geyser these days, unfortunately – the last time it erupted was
several years ago.  There’s a decent one right next to it called Strokkur that
erupts every few minutes, so at least we got to see that.

![DSCN0521]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0521.jpg) ![DSCN0540]({{
site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0540.jpg)

Then it was off to Thingvellir (the first letter in that word is a sound like
Th, but I don’t feel like figuring out how to make my computer type in
Icelandic right now, sorry).  Thingvellir is a national park that includes a
rift valley (part of the mid-Atlantic ridge), a big lake, and the site of the
original Icelandic parliament, called the Althing (same comment on the “th”
there).  This was probably the nicest stop on the Circle – we walked around
looking at the scenery, a little waterfall, and some interesting geology.
Lena is posing above, right, in front of the site where the original Althing
was probably held around the year 930.

**8/2 – Whale watching, part 2**

Ok, didn’t mention this above, but you may have wondered why the whale watch
was part 1.  Well, in part 1, we did not see any whales.  This is so unusual
an occurrence (the company claims a 95% sighting rate) that they gave everyone
a coupon to come back and try again.  So on our last day in Reykjavik, we
decided to catch the early boat and go see whales.  That’s the first one we
saw below, left, and also a puffin right next to it.  We actually saw a ton of
whales (all Minke whales, which are kind of smallish baleen whales) and also a
bunch of dolphins.  Success!

![DSCN0554_crop]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0554_crop.jpg) ![DSCN0565]({{
site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0565.jpg)

After a great lunch near the harbor (mmm, they don’t serve fresh off the boat
salmon in KAF . . .), we walked around Reykjavik some more, taking in the
sights we missed our first day.  We had dinner at a sushi train-style
restaurant (not bad – remember, Iceland = good fish) and enjoyed our final
night in the big city walking around downtown.

That was the first part of our trip – the big city.  To put Reykjavik in
context, Iceland is a country of around 300,000 people.  200,000 of them live
in the greater Reykjavik area.  So yeah, the rest of the country is pretty
much all small towns.  We visited a bunch of them, which you can read all
about whenever I get around to writing about the rest of our trip.  Soon, I
promise.  Probably.