---
categories:
- Living
date: 2012-09-01 01:59:58
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Bringing Ultimate to Afghanistan
type: post
---

As most of you probably know, I’ve been playing a decent amount of ultimate
frisbee over the past 7 years.  For most of my time at Stanford, I was playing
at least once a week in the pickup game that people from my department started
way back in our first year there.  I haven’t played since I stopped by the
Stanford pickup game before I left in May since there’s not too much
opportunity to play in Afghanistan.  Or so I thought.

It turns out that the engineering unit we’re working with here at Masum Ghar
likes to play team sports for their PT.  You might think this would pose a
problem on this FOB and you’d be right, since the playing fields are few and
far between.  We do have a HLZ, though.  It’s covered in gravel (not small,
nice gravel, but 3-inch gravel, which you might mistake for rocks) and it’s on
a noticeable hill, but it’s also covered in some sort of dust suppression
coating that makes it the closest thing to a field we can find here.  So since
I’ve been here, I’ve played ultimate and “ultimate football” (ultimate
frisbee, but with a nerf football and some unclear allowance for lateral
motion when you have the ball) on it three times.

![DSCN0804]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0804.jpg)

Our field, which looks better than it actually is from this angle.

In addition to the gravel, which is really kind of large and deep in some
places, making it extra interesting to run on, there are a couple of other
hazards.  You’ll note the large concrete blocks around the perimeter of the
HLZ, which are there to keep vehicles from driving out onto it.  You don’t
want to run into these.  There are, also, helicopters that sometimes want to
land here, although that hasn’t been a problem during the games.

The biggest problem for me was that I kept playing as though the surface was
grass, especially my first game.  Within the first point or two, my hands
looked like this:

![DSCN0764]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0764.jpg) ![DSCN0766]({{
site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0766.jpg)

because I would try to accelerate or stop too fast and inevitably wipe out.
Onto 3-inch rocks.  I also keep thinking that other people can also accelerate
or stop quickly, so I tend to lead them by way too much.  Most of the other
guys have figured out that it’s a bad idea to build up too much speed (because
stopping gets much harder), so I overthrow them all the time.  Needless to
say, the games are not super pretty, but it’s still a lot of fun.

One last scene to leave you with: this was going on outside of our lab today.

![DSCN0837]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn0837.jpg)

They’re moving the T-wall that the guy is standing on with a giant crane so
that they can push those portapotties back toward the building behind them.  I
actually missed the guy jumping up there because I ran inside to get my
camera, so I have no idea how he did it.  I ran inside to get my camera
because his initial strategy was to climb up using the portapotties and I was
pretty sure it was going to end hilariously.  Ah well.