---
categories:
- Working
date: 2012-11-05 03:26:02
layout: post
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: 'Engineering, FTW: A Project Win'
type: post
---

I haven’t really posted too much about the specific work I’ve been doing out
here.  That’s somewhat because it can be hard to tell what information is
sensitive and what isn’t, but also because I wanted this blog to be more about
living out here than the work.  But this post is going to be a little
different because this is one of my favorite projects from my deployment and I
think it’s a decent story.  It’s not high tech or anything, but some of our
best projects aren’t.

The story of this project started with a medic, a Ranger who is on his fourth
deployment.  Scott and Albert visited his unit in August.  Even though the
medic wasn’t there, his buddies pulled Scott and Albert over to his Stryker (a
kind of MRAP vehicle that carries a bunch of soldiers) so they could see his
invention.

![Stryker_Litter_Bracket_v0]({{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/stryker_litter_bracket_v0.jpg)

This is version 0 of the Stryker litter bracket.

Most of the time, the back of the Stryker seats eight soldiers, but in
emergencies they’ll throw casualties on litters (aka stretchers) in the back
with a medic or two to get them to safety.  As you can see in the photo, the
seats are individual seats, not a bench, and there isn’t enough room on the
floor to place the litter there, so the litter tends to fall off the seats if
you try to balance it there.  That’s not good for the injured soldier on the
litter, obviously.  So working with the materials he had on hand, which were
1/4-inch thick steel fence posts, a plasma torch, and a stick welder, this
medic had invented and constructed what we’re now calling a Stryker litter
bracket.  It’s a pretty simple idea, just a bracket with a swinging leg that
can be folded up next to the seat when not in use, but quickly deployed when
needed in an emergency.  It attaches using an existing bolt in the seat, so it
doesn’t permanently modify the vehicle.

Now, clearly this medic had some machining skills, because the tools he had to
work with were not sophisticated.  He didn’t have a drill to put holes in the
fence posts, so he used a plasma torch to cut the bolt holes (a plasma torch
is not exactly a precision cutting tool).  He didn’t have any shielding gas to
weld with, so his welds were none too pretty.  But he put together something
that worked.

![DSCN1064]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn1064.jpg)

Not a pretty sight, but strong enough for the job.

This is the kind of thing we look for out here, a “soldier innovation” that
solves a real tactical problem.  The first good sign was that he was motivated
enough to spend the time to build this thing.  The second good sign was that
his buddies thought enough of the idea that they pointed it out to us.  Scott
and Albert saw a great opportunity to take this very good idea and turn it
into a polished project that could potentially get bigger than just the
medic’s own vehicle.  So we worked with the medic to refine the design, then I
built a couple more prototypes.

![DSCN1018]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn1018.jpg)

Brackets version 2, pretty close to the final version.

Once we settled on something that work work, we sent it off to a prototyping
shop in Bagram that has a water jet table for cutting sheet metal and they
turned out a really polished set of parts.  I was lucky enough to get to go do
the install of the last prototype and meet the medic who invented this thing.

 ![DSCN1100]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/dscn1100.jpg)

Litter brackets deployed with litters in place.

The whole story of these brackets was the kind of thing we hate to hear, but
exactly the reason that we’re working in Afghanistan.  It turned out, talking
to the medic, that he had actually reinvented this exact same idea on each of
his four deployments, but it had never gone any further than his own unit.
This was the only time he had heard about the REF and he was definitely
excited to get to work with us.  Right now, we’re building enough of the
brackets to equip his whole company (nine vehicles) – the plan, if they are
well received, will be to try to push the Stryker product manager to get
something like this adopted either as a refit kit or a built-in feature on all
Strykers.

That’s pretty much the story – we went from a soldier innovation made from
sweat, blood, and scrap metal to a reasonably polished product that has a
chance of being adopted Army-wide.  It’s an invention that can help the
soldiers who need help the most, casualties and the medics trying to take care
of them in emergency situations.  We can’t do much better than that.

Three more workdays here before I head home, which will mostly be spent
teaching Charlie everything I can about the projects we’ve been working on and
how to navigate KAF.  I’ll try to squeeze at least one more post in before I
leave . . . I can’t wait to be home!